			Aboriginal settlers arrived on the continent from Southeast Asia about 40,000 years before the first Europeans began exploration in the 17th century. No formal territorial claims were made until 1770, when Capt. James COOK took possession in the name of Great Britain. Six colonies were created in the late 18th and 19th centuries; they federated and became the Commonwealth of Australia in 1901. The new country took advantage of its natural resources to rapidly develop agricultural and manufacturing industries and to make a major contribution to the British effort in World Wars I and II. In recent decades, Australia has transformed itself into an internationally competitive, advanced market economy. It boasted one of the OECD's fastest growing economies during the 1990s, a performance due in large part to economic reforms adopted in the 1980s. Long-term concerns include climate-change issues such as the depletion of the ozone layer and more frequent droughts, and management and conservation of coastal areas, especially the Great Barrier Reef. 
				Austria
			Once the center of power for the large Austro-Hungarian Empire, Austria was reduced to a small republic after its defeat in World War I. Following annexation by Nazi Germany in 1938 and subsequent occupation by the victorious Allies in 1945, Austria's status remained unclear for a decade. A State Treaty signed in 1955 ended the occupation, recognized Austria's independence, and forbade unification with Germany. A constitutional law that same year declared the country's "perpetual neutrality" as a condition for Soviet military withdrawal. The Soviet Union's collapse in 1991 and Austria's entry into the European Union in 1995 have altered the meaning of this neutrality. A prosperous, democratic country, Austria entered the EU Economic and Monetary Union in 1999. 
				Azerbaijan
			Azerbaijan - a nation with a majority-Turkic and majority-Muslim population - was briefly independent from 1918 to 1920; it regained its independence after the collapse of the Soviet Union in 1991. Despite a 1994 cease-fire, Azerbaijan has yet to resolve its conflict with Armenia over the Azerbaijani Nagorno-Karabakh enclave (largely Armenian populated). Azerbaijan has lost 16% of its territory and must support some 600,000 internally displaced persons as a result of the conflict. Corruption is ubiquitous, and the government has been accused of authoritarianism. Although the poverty rate has been reduced in recent years, the promise of widespread wealth from development of Azerbaijan's energy sector remains largely unfulfilled. 
				Bahamas, The
			Lucayan Indians inhabited the islands when Christopher COLUMBUS first set foot in the New World on San Salvador in 1492. British settlement of the islands began in 1647; the islands became a colony in 1783. Since attaining independence from the UK in 1973, The Bahamas have prospered through tourism and international banking and investment management. Because of its geography, the country is a major transshipment point for illegal drugs, particularly shipments to the US and Europe, and its territory is used for smuggling illegal migrants into the US. 
				Bahrain
			In 1783, the al-Khalifa family captured Bahrain from the Persians. In order to secure these holdings, it entered into a series of treaties with the UK during the 19th century that made Bahrain a British protectorate. The archipelago attained its independence in 1971. Bahrain's small size and central location among Persian Gulf countries require it to play a delicate balancing act in foreign affairs among its larger neighbors. Facing declining oil reserves, Bahrain has turned to petroleum processing and refining and has transformed itself into an international banking center. King HAMAD bin Isa al-Khalifa, after coming to power in 1999, pushed economic and political reforms to improve relations with the Shia community. Shia political societies participated in 2006 parliamentary and municipal elections. Al Wifaq, the largest Shia political society, won the largest number of seats in the elected chamber of the legislature. However, Shi'a discontent has resurfaced in recent years with street demonstrations and occasional low-level violence. 
				Bangladesh
			Europeans began to set up trading posts in the area of Bangladesh in the 16th century; eventually the British came to dominate the region and it became part of British India. In 1947, West Pakistan and East Bengal (both primarily Muslim) separated from India (largely Hindu) and jointly became the new country of Pakistan. East Bengal became East Pakistan in 1955, but the awkward arrangement of a two-part country with its territorial units separated by 1,600 km left the Bengalis marginalized and dissatisfied. East Pakistan seceded from its union with West Pakistan in 1971 and was renamed Bangladesh. A military-backed caretaker regime suspended planned parliamentary elections in January 2007 in an effort to reform the political system and root out corruption; the regime has pledged new democratic elections by the end of 2008. About a third of this extremely poor country floods annually during the monsoon rainy season, hampering economic development. 
				Barbados
			The island was uninhabited when first settled by the British in 1627. Slaves worked the sugar plantations established on the island until 1834 when slavery was abolished. The economy remained heavily dependent on sugar, rum, and molasses production through most of the 20th century. The gradual introduction of social and political reforms in the 1940s and 1950s led to complete independence from the UK in 1966. In the 1990s, tourism and manufacturing surpassed the sugar industry in economic importance. 
				Belarus
			After seven decades as a constituent republic of the USSR, Belarus attained its independence in 1991. It has retained closer political and economic ties to Russia than any of the other former Soviet republics. Belarus and Russia signed a treaty on a two-state union on 8 December 1999 envisioning greater political and economic integration. Although Belarus agreed to a framework to carry out the accord, serious implementation has yet to take place. Since his election in July 1994 as the country's first president, Alexandr LUKASHENKO has steadily consolidated his power through authoritarian means. Government restrictions on freedom of speech and the press, peaceful assembly, and religion remain in place. 
				Belgium
			Belgium became independent from the Netherlands in 1830; it was occupied by Germany during World Wars I and II. The country prospered in the past half century as a modern, technologically advanced European state and member of NATO and the EU. Tensions between the Dutch-speaking Flemings of the north and the French-speaking Walloons of the south have led in recent years to constitutional amendments granting these regions formal recognition and autonomy. 
				Belize
			Belize was the site of several Mayan city states until their decline at the end of the first millennium A.D. The British and Spanish disputed the region in the 17th and 18th centuries; it formally became the colony of British Honduras in 1854. Territorial disputes between the UK and Guatemala delayed the independence of Belize until 1981. Guatemala refused to recognize the new nation until 1992. Tourism has become the mainstay of the economy. Current concerns include an unsustainable foreign debt, high unemployment, growing involvement in the South American drug trade, growing urban crime, and increasing incidences of HIV/AIDS. 
				Benin
			Present day Benin was the site of Dahomey, a prominent West African kingdom that rose in the 15th century. The territory became a French Colony in 1872 and achieved independence on 1 August 1960, as the Republic of Benin. A succession of military governments ended in 1972 with the rise to power of Mathieu KEREKOU and the establishment of a government based on Marxist-Leninist principles. A move to representative government began in 1989. Two years later, free elections ushered in former Prime Minister Nicephore SOGLO as president, marking the first successful transfer of power in Africa from a dictatorship to a democracy. KEREKOU was returned to power by elections held in 1996 and 2001, though some irregularities were alleged. KEREKOU stepped down at the end of his second term in 2006 and was succeeded by Thomas YAYI Boni, a political outsider and independent. YAYI has begun a high profile fight against corruption and has strongly promoted accelerating Benin's economic growth. 
				Bermuda
			Bermuda was first settled in 1609 by shipwrecked English colonists headed for Virginia. Tourism to the island to escape North American winters first developed in Victorian times. Tourism continues to be important to the island's economy, although international business has overtaken it in recent years. Bermuda has developed into a highly successful offshore financial center. Although a referendum on independence from the UK was soundly defeated in 1995, the present government has reopened debate on the issue. 
				Bhutan
			In 1865, Britain and Bhutan signed the Treaty of Sinchulu, under which Bhutan would receive an annual subsidy in exchange for ceding some border land to British India. Under British influence, a monarchy was set up in 1907; three years later, a treaty was signed whereby the British agreed not to interfere in Bhutanese internal affairs and Bhutan allowed Britain to direct its foreign affairs. This role was assumed by independent India after 1947. Two years later, a formal Indo-Bhutanese accord returned the areas of Bhutan annexed by the British, formalized the annual subsidies the country received, and defined India's responsibilities in defense and foreign relations. A refugee issue of over 100,000 Bhutanese in Nepal remains unresolved; 90% of the refugees are housed in seven United Nations Office of the High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR) camps. In March 2005, King Jigme Singye WANGCHUCK unveiled the government's draft constitution - which would introduce major democratic reforms - and pledged to hold a national referendum for its approval. In December 2006, the King abdicated the throne to his son, Jigme Khesar Namgyel WANGCHUCK, in order to give him experience as head of state before the democratic transition. In early 2007, India and Bhutan renegotiated their treaty to allow Bhutan greater autonomy in conducting its foreign policy, although Thimphu continues to coordinate policy decisions in this area with New Delhi. In July 2007, seven ministers of Bhutan's ten-member cabinet resigned to join the political process, and the cabinet acted as a caretaker regime until democratic elections for seats to the country's first parliament were completed in March 2008. The king ratified the country's first constitution in July 2008. 
				Bolivia
			Bolivia, named after independence fighter Simon BOLIVAR, broke away from Spanish rule in 1825; much of its subsequent history has consisted of a series of nearly 200 coups and countercoups. Democratic civilian rule was established in 1982, but leaders have faced difficult problems of deep-seated poverty, social unrest, and illegal drug production. In December 2005, Bolivians elected Movement Toward Socialism leader Evo MORALES president - by the widest margin of any leader since the restoration of civilian rule in 1982 - after he ran on a promise to change the country's traditional political class and empower the nation's poor majority. However, since taking office, his controversial strategies have exacerbated racial and economic tensions between the Amerindian populations of the Andean west and the non-indigenous communities of the eastern lowlands. 
				Bosnia and Herzegovina
			Bosnia and Herzegovina's declaration of sovereignty in October 1991 was followed by a declaration of independence from the former Yugoslavia on 3 March 1992 after a referendum boycotted by ethnic Serbs. The Bosnian Serbs - supported by neighboring Serbia and Montenegro - responded with armed resistance aimed at partitioning the republic along ethnic lines and joining Serb-held areas to form a "Greater Serbia." In March 1994, Bosniaks and Croats reduced the number of warring factions from three to two by signing an agreement creating a joint Bosniak/Croat Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina. On 21 November 1995, in Dayton, Ohio, the warring parties initialed a peace agreement that brought to a halt three years of interethnic civil strife (the final agreement was signed in Paris on 14 December 1995). The Dayton Peace Accords retained Bosnia and Herzegovina's international boundaries and created a joint multi-ethnic and democratic government charged with conducting foreign, diplomatic, and fiscal policy. Also recognized was a second tier of government comprised of two entities roughly equal in size: the Bosniak/Croat Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Bosnian Serb-led Republika Srpska (RS). The Federation and RS governments were charged with overseeing most government functions. The Office of the High Representative (OHR) was established to oversee the implementation of the civilian aspects of the agreement. In 1995-96, a NATO-led international peacekeeping force (IFOR) of 60,000 troops served in Bosnia to implement and monitor the military aspects of the agreement. IFOR was succeeded by a smaller, NATO-led Stabilization Force (SFOR) whose mission was to deter renewed hostilities. European Union peacekeeping troops (EUFOR) replaced SFOR in December 2004; their mission is to maintain peace and stability throughout the country. EUFOR's mission changed from peacekeeping to civil policing in October 2007, with its presence reduced from nearly 7,000 to less than 2,500 troops. 
				Botswana
			Formerly the British protectorate of Bechuanaland, Botswana adopted its new name upon independence in 1966. Four decades of uninterrupted civilian leadership, progressive social policies, and significant capital investment have created one of the most dynamic economies in Africa. Mineral extraction, principally diamond mining, dominates economic activity, though tourism is a growing sector due to the country's conservation practices and extensive nature preserves. Botswana has one of the world's highest known rates of HIV/AIDS infection, but also one of Africa's most progressive and comprehensive programs for dealing with the disease. 
				Bouvet Island
			This uninhabited volcanic island is almost entirely covered by glaciers and is difficult to approach. It was discovered in 1739 by a French naval officer after whom the island was named. No claim was made until 1825, when the British flag was raised. In 1928, the UK waived its claim in favor of Norway, which had occupied the island the previous year. In 1971, Norway designated Bouvet Island and the adjacent territorial waters a nature reserve. Since 1977, it has run an automated meteorological station on the island. 
				Brazil
			Following more than three centuries under Portuguese rule, Brazil peacefully gained its independence in 1822, maintaining a monarchical system of government until the abolition of slavery in 1888 and the subsequent proclamation of a republic by the military in 1889. Brazilian coffee exporters politically dominated the country until populist leader Getulio VARGAS rose to power in 1930. By far the largest and most populous country in South America, Brazil underwent more than half a century of populist and military government until 1985, when the military regime peacefully ceded power to civilian rulers. Brazil continues to pursue industrial and agricultural growth and development of its interior. Exploiting vast natural resources and a large labor pool, it is today South America's leading economic power and a regional leader. Highly unequal income distribution and crime remain pressing problems. 
				British Indian Ocean Territory
			Formerly administered as part of the British Crown Colony of Mauritius, the British Indian Ocean Territory (BIOT) was established as an overseas territory of the UK in 1965. A number of the islands of the territory were later transferred to the Seychelles when it attained independence in 1976. Subsequently, BIOT has consisted only of the six main island groups comprising the Chagos Archipelago. The largest and most southerly of the islands, Diego Garcia, contains a joint UK-US naval support facility. All of the remaining islands are uninhabited. Between 1967 and 1973, former agricultural workers, earlier residents in the islands, were relocated primarily to Mauritius, but also to the Seychelles. Negotiations between 1971 and 1982 resulted in the establishment of a trust fund by the British Government as compensation for the displaced islanders, known as Chagossians. Beginning in 1998, the islanders pursued a series of lawsuits against the British Government seeking further compensation and the right to return to the territory. In 2006 and 2007, British court rulings invalidated the immigration policies contained in the 2004 BIOT Constitution Order that had excluded the islanders from the archipelago, but upheld the special military status of Diego Garcia. In 2008, the House of Lords, as the final court of appeal in the UK, ruled in favor of the British Goverment by overturning the lower court rulings and finding no right of return on the part of the Chagossians. 
				British Virgin Islands
			First inhabited by Arawak and later by Carib Indians, the Virgin Islands were settled by the Dutch in 1648 and then annexed by the English in 1672. The islands were part of the British colony of the Leeward Islands from 1872-1960; they were granted autonomy in 1967. The economy is closely tied to the larger and more populous US Virgin Islands to the west; the US dollar is the legal currency. 
				Brunei
			The Sultanate of Brunei's influence peaked between the 15th and 17th centuries when its control extended over coastal areas of northwest Borneo and the southern Philippines. Brunei subsequently entered a period of decline brought on by internal strife over royal succession, colonial expansion of European powers, and piracy. In 1888, Brunei became a British protectorate; independence was achieved in 1984. The same family has ruled Brunei for over six centuries. Brunei benefits from extensive petroleum and natural gas fields, the source of one of the highest per capita GDPs in Asia. 
				Bulgaria
			The Bulgars, a Central Asian Turkic tribe, merged with the local Slavic inhabitants in the late 7th century to form the first Bulgarian state. In succeeding centuries, Bulgaria struggled with the Byzantine Empire to assert its place in the Balkans, but by the end of the 14th century the country was overrun by the Ottoman Turks. Northern Bulgaria attained autonomy in 1878 and all of Bulgaria became independent from the Ottoman Empire in 1908. Having fought on the losing side in both World Wars, Bulgaria fell within the Soviet sphere of influence and became a People's Republic in 1946. Communist domination ended in 1990, when Bulgaria held its first multiparty election since World War II and began the contentious process of moving toward political democracy and a market economy while combating inflation, unemployment, corruption, and crime. The country joined NATO in 2004 and the EU in 2007. 
				Burkina Faso
			Burkina Faso (formerly Upper Volta) achieved independence from France in 1960. Repeated military coups during the 1970s and 1980s were followed by multiparty elections in the early 1990s. Current President Blaise COMPAORE came to power in a 1987 military coup and has won every election since then. Burkina Faso's high population density and limited natural resources result in poor economic prospects for the majority of its citizens. Recent unrest in Cote d'Ivoire and northern Ghana has hindered the ability of several hundred thousand seasonal Burkinabe farm workers to find employment in neighboring countries. 
				Burma
			Britain conquered Burma over a period of 62 years (1824-1886) and incorporated it into its Indian Empire. Burma was administered as a province of India until 1937 when it became a separate, self-governing colony; independence from the Commonwealth was attained in 1948. Gen. NE WIN dominated the government from 1962 to 1988, first as military ruler, then as self-appointed president, and later as political kingpin. In September 1988, the military deposed NE WIN and established a new ruling junta. Despite multiparty legislative elections in 1990 that resulted in the main opposition party - the National League for Democracy (NLD) - winning a landslide victory, the junta refused to hand over power. NLD leader and Nobel Peace Prize recipient AUNG SAN SUU KYI, who was under house arrest from 1989 to 1995 and 2000 to 2002, was imprisoned in May 2003 and subsequently transferred to house arrest. After the ruling junta in August 2007 unexpectedly increased fuel prices, tens of thousands of Burmese marched in protest, led by prodemocracy activists and Buddhist monks. In late September 2007, the government brutally suppressed the protests, killing at least 13 people and arresting thousands for participating in the demonstrations. Since then, the regime has continued to raid homes and monasteries and arrest persons suspected of participating in the pro-democracy protests. The junta appointed Labor Minister AUNG KYI in October 2007 as liaison to AUNG SAN SUU KYI, who remains under house arrest and virtually incommunicado with her party and supporters. Burma in early May 2008 was struck by Cyclone Nargis which official estimates claimed left over 80,000 dead and 50,000 injured. Despite this tragedy, the junta proceeded with its May constitutional referendum, the first vote in Burma since 1990, setting the stage for the 2010 parliamentary elections. 
				Burundi
			Burundi's first democratically elected president was assassinated in October 1993 after only 100 days in office, triggering widespread ethnic violence between Hutu and Tutsi factions. More than 200,000 Burundians perished during the conflict that spanned almost a dozen years. Hundreds of thousands of Burundians were internally displaced or became refugees in neighboring countries. An internationally brokered power-sharing agreement between the Tutsi-dominated government and the Hutu rebels in 2003 paved the way for a transition process that led to an integrated defense force, established a new constitution in 2005, and elected a majority Hutu government in 2005. The new government, led by President Pierre NKURUNZIZA, signed a South African brokered ceasefire with the country's last rebel group in September of 2006 but still faces many challenges. 
				Cambodia
			Most Cambodians consider themselves to be Khmers, descendants of the Angkor Empire that extended over much of Southeast Asia and reached its zenith between the 10th and 13th centuries. Attacks by the Thai and Cham (from present-day Vietnam) weakened the empire, ushering in a long period of decline. The king placed the country under French protection in 1863 and it became part of French Indochina in 1887. Following Japanese occupation in World War II, Cambodia gained full independence from France in 1953. In April 1975, after a five-year struggle, Communist Khmer Rouge forces captured Phnom Penh and evacuated all cities and towns. At least 1.5 million Cambodians died from execution, forced hardships, or starvation during the Khmer Rouge regime under POL POT. A December 1978 Vietnamese invasion drove the Khmer Rouge into the countryside, began a 10-year Vietnamese occupation, and touched off almost 13 years of civil war. The 1991 Paris Peace Accords mandated democratic elections and a ceasefire, which was not fully respected by the Khmer Rouge. UN-sponsored elections in 1993 helped restore some semblance of normalcy under a coalition government. Factional fighting in 1997 ended the first coalition government, but a second round of national elections in 1998 led to the formation of another coalition government and renewed political stability. The remaining elements of the Khmer Rouge surrendered in early 1999. Some of the surviving Khmer Rouge leaders are awaiting trial by a UN-sponsored tribunal for crimes against humanity. Elections in July 2003 were relatively peaceful, but it took one year of negotiations between contending political parties before a coalition government was formed. In October 2004, King Norodom SIHANOUK abdicated the throne and his son, Prince Norodom SIHAMONI, was selected to succeed him. Local elections were held in Cambodia in April 2007, and there was little in the way of pre-election violence that preceded prior elections. National elections in July 2008 were relatively peaceful. 
				Cameroon
			The former French Cameroon and part of British Cameroon merged in 1961 to form the present country. Cameroon has generally enjoyed stability, which has permitted the development of agriculture, roads, and railways, as well as a petroleum industry. Despite a slow movement toward democratic reform, political power remains firmly in the hands of President Paul BIYA. 
				Canada
			A land of vast distances and rich natural resources, Canada became a self-governing dominion in 1867 while retaining ties to the British crown. Economically and technologically the nation has developed in parallel with the US, its neighbor to the south across an unfortified border. Canada faces the political challenges of meeting public demands for quality improvements in health care and education services, as well as responding to separatist concerns in predominantly francophone Quebec. Canada also aims to develop its diverse energy resources while maintaining its commitment to the environment. 
				Cape Verde
			The uninhabited islands were discovered and colonized by the Portuguese in the 15th century; Cape Verde subsequently became a trading center for African slaves and later an important coaling and resupply stop for whaling and transatlantic shipping. Following independence in 1975, and a tentative interest in unification with Guinea-Bissau, a one-party system was established and maintained until multi-party elections were held in 1990. Cape Verde continues to exhibit one of Africa's most stable democratic governments. Repeated droughts during the second half of the 20th century caused significant hardship and prompted heavy emigration. As a result, Cape Verde's expatriate population is greater than its domestic one. Most Cape Verdeans have both African and Portuguese antecedents. 
				Cayman Islands
			The Cayman Islands were colonized from Jamaica by the British during the 18th and 19th centuries, and were administered by Jamaica after 1863. In 1959, the islands became a territory within the Federation of the West Indies, but when the Federation dissolved in 1962, the Cayman Islands chose to remain a British dependency. 
				Central African Republic
			The former French colony of Ubangi-Shari became the Central African Republic upon independence in 1960. After three tumultuous decades of misrule - mostly by military governments - civilian rule was established in 1993 and lasted for one decade. President Ange-Felix PATASSE's civilian government was plagued by unrest, and in March 2003 he was deposed in a military coup led by General Francois BOZIZE, who established a transitional government. Though the government has the tacit support of civil society groups and the main parties, a wide field of candidates contested the municipal, legislative, and presidential elections held in March and May of 2005 in which General BOZIZE was affirmed as president. The government still does not fully control the countryside, where pockets of lawlessness persist. Unrest in neighboring nations, Chad, Sudan, and the DRC, continues to affect stability in the Central African Republic as well. 
				Chad
			Chad, part of France's African holdings until 1960, endured three decades of civil warfare as well as invasions by Libya before a semblance of peace was finally restored in 1990. The government eventually drafted a democratic constitution, and held flawed presidential elections in 1996 and 2001. In 1998, a rebellion broke out in northern Chad, which has sporadically flared up despite several peace agreements between the government and the rebels. In 2005, new rebel groups emerged in western Sudan and made probing attacks into eastern Chad, despite signing peace agreements in December 2006 and October 2007. Power remains in the hands of an ethnic minority. In June 2005, President Idriss DEBY held a referendum successfully removing constitutional term limits and won another controversial election in 2006. Sporadic rebel campaigns continued throughout 2006 and 2007, and the capital experienced a significant rebel threat in early 2008. 
				Chile
			Prior to the coming of the Spanish in the 16th century, northern Chile was under Inca rule while Araucanian Indians (also known as Mapuches) inhabited central and southern Chile. Although Chile declared its independence in 1810, decisive victory over the Spanish was not achieved until 1818. In the War of the Pacific (1879-83), Chile defeated Peru and Bolivia and won its present northern regions. It was not until the 1880s that the Araucanian Indians were completely subjugated. A three-year-old Marxist government of Salvador ALLENDE was overthrown in 1973 by a military coup led by Augusto PINOCHET, who ruled until a freely elected president was installed in 1990. Sound economic policies, maintained consistently since the 1980s, have contributed to steady growth, reduced poverty rates by over half, and have helped secure the country's commitment to democratic and representative government. Chile has increasingly assumed regional and international leadership roles befitting its status as a stable, democratic nation. 
				China
			For centuries China stood as a leading civilization, outpacing the rest of the world in the arts and sciences, but in the 19th and early 20th centuries, the country was beset by civil unrest, major famines, military defeats, and foreign occupation. After World War II, the Communists under MAO Zedong established an autocratic socialist system that, while ensuring China's sovereignty, imposed strict controls over everyday life and cost the lives of tens of millions of people. After 1978, his successor DENG Xiaoping and other leaders focused on market-oriented economic development and by 2000 output had quadrupled. For much of the population, living standards have improved dramatically and the room for personal choice has expanded, yet political controls remain tight. 
				Christmas Island
			Named in 1643 for the day of its discovery, the island was annexed and settlement began by the UK in 1888. Phosphate mining began in the 1890s. The UK transferred sovereignty to Australia in 1958. Almost two-thirds of the island has been declared a national park. 
				Clipperton Island
			This isolated island was named for John CLIPPERTON, a pirate who made it his hideout early in the 18th century. Annexed by France in 1855, it was seized by Mexico in 1897. Arbitration eventually awarded the island to France, which took possession in 1935. 
				Cocos (Keeling) Islands
			There are 27 coral islands in the group. Captain William KEELING discovered the islands in 1609, but they remained uninhabited until the 19th century. From the 1820s to 1978, members of the CLUNIE-ROSS family controlled the islands and the copra produced from local coconuts. Annexed by the UK in 1857, the Cocos Islands were transferred to the Australian Government in 1955. The population on the two inhabited islands generally is split between the ethnic Europeans on West Island and the ethnic Malays on Home Island. 
				Colombia
			Colombia was one of the three countries that emerged from the collapse of Gran Colombia in 1830 (the others are Ecuador and Venezuela). A four-decade long conflict between government forces and anti-government insurgent groups, principally the Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia (FARC) heavily funded by the drug trade, escalated during the 1990s. The insurgents lack the military or popular support necessary to overthrow the government and violence has been decreasing since about 2002, but insurgents continue attacks against civilians and large areas of the countryside are under guerrilla influence or are contested by security forces. More than 31,000 former paramilitaries had demobilized by the end of 2006 and the United Self Defense Forces of Colombia (AUC) as a formal organization had ceased to function. In the wake of the paramilitary demobilization, emerging criminal groups arose, whose members include some former paramilitaries. The Colombian Government has stepped up efforts to reassert government control throughout the country, and now has a presence in every one of its administrative departments. However, neighboring countries worry about the violence spilling over their borders. 
				Comoros
			Comoros has endured more than 20 coups or attempted coups since gaining independence from France in 1975. In 1997, the islands of Anjouan and Moheli declared independence from Comoros. In 1999, military chief Col. AZALI seized power in a bloodless coup, and helped negotiate the 2000 Fomboni Accords power-sharing agreement in which the federal presidency rotates among the three islands, and each island maintains its own local government. AZALI won the 2002 Presidential election, and each island in the archipelago elected its own president. AZALI stepped down in 2006 and President SAMBI was elected to office. In 2007, BACAR effected Anjouan's de-facto secession from the Union, refusing to step down in favor of fresh Anjouanais elections when Comoros' other islands held legitimate elections in July. The African Union (AU) initially attempted to resolve the political crisis by applying sanctions and a naval blockade on Anjouan, but in March 2008, AU and Comoran soldiers seized the island. The move was generally welcomed by the island's inhabitants. 
				Congo, Democratic Republic of the
			Established as a Belgian colony in 1908, the Republic of the Congo gained its independence in 1960, but its early years were marred by political and social instability. Col. Joseph MOBUTU seized power and declared himself president in a November 1965 coup. He subsequently changed his name - to MOBUTU Sese Seko - as well as that of the country - to Zaire. MOBUTU retained his position for 32 years through several sham elections, as well as through the use of brutal force. Ethnic strife and civil war, touched off by a massive inflow of refugees in 1994 from fighting in Rwanda and Burundi, led in May 1997 to the toppling of the MOBUTU regime by a rebellion backed by Rwanda and Uganda and fronted by Laurent KABILA. He renamed the country the Democratic Republic of the Congo (DROC), but in August 1998 his regime was itself challenged by a second insurrection again backed by Rwanda and Uganda. Troops from Angola, Chad, Namibia, Sudan, and Zimbabwe intervened to support KABILA's regime. A cease-fire was signed in July 1999 by the DROC, Congolese armed rebel groups, Angola, Namibia, Rwanda, Uganda, and Zimbabwe but sporadic fighting continued. Laurent KABILA was assassinated in January 2001 and his son, Joseph KABILA, was named head of state. In October 2002, the new president was successful in negotiating the withdrawal of Rwandan forces occupying eastern Congo; two months later, the Pretoria Accord was signed by all remaining warring parties to end the fighting and establish a government of national unity. A transitional government was set up in July 2003. Joseph KABILA as president and four vice presidents represented the former government, former rebel groups, the political opposition, and civil society. The transitional government held a successful constitutional referendum in December 2005 and elections for the presidency, National Assembly, and provincial legislatures in 2006. KABILA was inaugurated president in December 2006. The National Assembly was installed in September 2006. Its president, Vital KAMERHE, was chosen in December. Provincial assemblies were constituted in early 2007, and elected governors and national senators in January 2007. 
				Congo, Republic of the
			Upon independence in 1960, the former French region of Middle Congo became the Republic of the Congo. A quarter century of experimentation with Marxism was abandoned in 1990 and a democratically elected government took office in 1992. A brief civil war in 1997 restored former Marxist President Denis SASSOU-NGUESSO, and ushered in a period of ethnic and political unrest. Southern-based rebel groups agreed to a final peace accord in March 2003, but the calm is tenuous and refugees continue to present a humanitarian crisis. The Republic of Congo was once one of Africa's largest petroleum producers, but with declining production it will need new offshore oil finds to sustain its oil earnings over the long term. 
				Cook Islands
			Named after Captain COOK, who sighted them in 1770, the islands became a British protectorate in 1888. By 1900, administrative control was transferred to New Zealand; in 1965, residents chose self-government in free association with New Zealand. The emigration of skilled workers to New Zealand and government deficits are continuing problems. 
				Coral Sea Islands
			Scattered over more than three-quarters of a million square kilometers of ocean, the Coral Sea Islands were declared a territory of Australia in 1969. They are uninhabited except for a small meteorological staff on the Willis Islets. Automated weather stations, beacons, and a lighthouse occupy many other islands and reefs. 
				Costa Rica
			Although explored by the Spanish early in the 16th century, initial attempts at colonizing Costa Rica proved unsuccessful due to a combination of factors, including: disease from mosquito-infested swamps, brutal heat, resistance by natives, and pirate raids. It was not until 1563 that a permanent settlement of Cartago was established in the cooler, fertile central highlands. The area remained a colony for some two and a half centuries. In 1821, Costa Rica became one of several Central American provinces that jointly declared their independence from Spain. Two years later it joined the United Provinces of Central America, but this federation disintegrated in 1838, at which time Costa Rica proclaimed its sovereignty and independence. Since the late 19th century, only two brief periods of violence have marred the country's democratic development. Although it still maintains a large agricultural sector, Costa Rica has expanded its economy to include strong technology and tourism industries. The standard of living is relatively high. Land ownership is widespread. 
				Cote d'Ivoire
			Close ties to France since independence in 1960, the development of cocoa production for export, and foreign investment made Cote d'Ivoire one of the most prosperous of the West African states, but did not protect it from political turmoil. In December 1999, a military coup - the first ever in Cote d'Ivoire's history - overthrew the government. Junta leader Robert GUEI blatantly rigged elections held in late 2000 and declared himself the winner. Popular protest forced him to step aside and brought Laurent GBAGBO into power. Ivorian dissidents and disaffected members of the military launched a failed coup attempt in September 2002. Rebel forces claimed the northern half of the country, and in January 2003 were granted ministerial positions in a unity government under the auspices of the Linas-Marcoussis Peace Accord. President GBAGBO and rebel forces resumed implementation of the peace accord in December 2003 after a three-month stalemate, but issues that sparked the civil war, such as land reform and grounds for citizenship, remained unresolved. In March 2007 President GBAGBO and former New Force rebel leader Guillaume SORO signed the Ouagadougou Political Agreement. As a result of the agreement, SORO joined GBAGBO's government as Prime Minister and the two agreed to reunite the country by dismantling the zone of confidence separating North from South, integrate rebel forces into the national armed forces, and hold elections. Several thousand French and UN troops remain in Cote d'Ivoire to help the parties implement their commitments and to support the peace process. 
				Croatia
			The lands that today comprise Croatia were part of the Austro-Hungarian Empire until the close of World War I. In 1918, the Croats, Serbs, and Slovenes formed a kingdom known after 1929 as Yugoslavia. Following World War II, Yugoslavia became a federal independent Communist state under the strong hand of Marshal TITO. Although Croatia declared its independence from Yugoslavia in 1991, it took four years of sporadic, but often bitter, fighting before occupying Serb armies were mostly cleared from Croatian lands. Under UN supervision, the last Serb-held enclave in eastern Slavonia was returned to Croatia in 1998. 
				Cuba
			The native Amerindian population of Cuba began to decline after the European discovery of the island by Christopher COLUMBUS in 1492 and following its development as a Spanish colony during the next several centuries. Large numbers of African slaves were imported to work the coffee and sugar plantations, and Havana became the launching point for the annual treasure fleets bound for Spain from Mexico and Peru. Spanish rule eventually provoked an independence movement and occasional rebellions that were harshly suppressed. US intervention during the Spanish-American War in 1898 assisted the Cubans in overthrowing Spanish rule. The Treaty of Paris established Cuban independence from the US in 1902, after which the island experienced a string of governments mostly dominated by the military and corrupt politicians. Fidel CASTRO led a rebel army to victory in 1959; his iron rule held the subsequent regime together for nearly five decades. He stepped down as president in February 2008 in favor of his younger brother Raul CASTRO. Cuba's Communist revolution, with Soviet support, was exported throughout Latin America and Africa during the 1960s, 1970s, and 1980s. The country faced a severe economic downturn in 1990, following the withdrawal of former Soviet subsidies, worth $4 billion to $6 billion annually. Cuba portrays its difficulties as the result of the US embargo in place since 1961. Illicit migration to the US - using homemade rafts, alien smugglers, air flights, or via the southwest border - is a continuing problem. The US Coast Guard intercepted 2,656 individuals attempting to cross the Straits of Florida in fiscal year 2007. 
				Cyprus
			A former British colony, Cyprus became independent in 1960 following years of resistance to British rule. Tensions between the Greek Cypriot majority and Turkish Cypriot minority came to a head in December 1963, when violence broke out in the capital of Nicosia. Despite the deployment of UN peacekeepers in 1964, sporadic intercommunal violence continued forcing most Turkish Cypriots into enclaves throughout the island. In 1974, a Greek Government-sponsored attempt to seize control of Cyprus was met by military intervention from Turkey, which soon controlled more than a third of the island. In 1983, the Turkish-held area declared itself the "Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus" ("TRNC"), but it is recognized only by Turkey. The election of a new Cypriot president in 2008 served as the impetus for the UN to encourage both the Turkish and Cypriot Governments to reopen unification negotiations. In September 2008, the leaders of the Greek Cypriot and Turkish Cypriot communities started negotiations under UN auspices aimed at reuniting the divided island. The entire island entered the EU on 1 May 2004, although the EU acquis - the body of common rights and obligations - applies only to the areas under direct government control, and is suspended in the areas administered by Turkish Cypriots. However, individual Turkish Cypriots able to document their eligibility for Republic of Cyprus citizenship legally enjoy the same rights accorded to other citizens of European Union states. 
				Czech Republic
			Following the First World War, the closely related Czechs and Slovaks of the former Austro-Hungarian Empire merged to form Czechoslovakia. During the interwar years, the new country's leaders were frequently preoccupied with meeting the demands of other ethnic minorities within the republic, most notably the Sudeten Germans and the Ruthenians (Ukrainians). After World War II, a truncated Czechoslovakia fell within the Soviet sphere of influence. In 1968, an invasion by Warsaw Pact troops ended the efforts of the country's leaders to liberalize Communist party rule and create "socialism with a human face." Anti-Soviet demonstrations the following year ushered in a period of harsh repression. With the collapse of Soviet authority in 1989, Czechoslovakia regained its freedom through a peaceful "Velvet Revolution." On 1 January 1993, the country underwent a "velvet divorce" into its two national components, the Czech Republic and Slovakia. The Czech Republic joined NATO in 1999 and the European Union in 2004. 
				Denmark
			Once the seat of Viking raiders and later a major north European power, Denmark has evolved into a modern, prosperous nation that is participating in the general political and economic integration of Europe. It joined NATO in 1949 and the EEC (now the EU) in 1973. However, the country has opted out of certain elements of the European Union's Maastricht Treaty, including the European Economic and Monetary Union (EMU), European defense cooperation, and issues concerning certain justice and home affairs. 
				Dhekelia
			By terms of the 1960 Treaty of Establishment that created the independent Republic of Cyprus, the UK retained full sovereignty and jurisdiction over two areas of almost 254 square kilometers - Akrotiri and Dhekelia. The larger of these is the Dhekelia Sovereign Base Area, which is also referred to as the Eastern Sovereign Base Area. 
				Djibouti
			The French Territory of the Afars and the Issas became Djibouti in 1977. Hassan Gouled APTIDON installed an authoritarian one-party state and proceeded to serve as president until 1999. Unrest among the Afars minority during the 1990s led to a civil war that ended in 2001 following the conclusion of a peace accord between Afar rebels and the Issa-dominated government. In 1999, Djibouti's first multi-party presidential elections resulted in the election of Ismail Omar GUELLEH; he was re-elected to a second and final term in 2005. Djibouti occupies a strategic geographic location at the mouth of the Red Sea and serves as an important transshipment location for goods entering and leaving the east African highlands. The present leadership favors close ties to France, which maintains a significant military presence in the country, but also has strong ties with the US. Djibouti hosts the only US military base in sub-Saharan Africa and is a front-line state in the global war on terrorism. 
				Dominica
			Dominica was the last of the Caribbean islands to be colonized by Europeans due chiefly to the fierce resistance of the native Caribs. France ceded possession to Great Britain in 1763, which made the island a colony in 1805. In 1980, two years after independence, Dominica's fortunes improved when a corrupt and tyrannical administration was replaced by that of Mary Eugenia CHARLES, the first female prime minister in the Caribbean, who remained in office for 15 years. Some 3,000 Carib Indians still living on Dominica are the only pre-Columbian population remaining in the eastern Caribbean. 
				Dominican Republic
			Explored and claimed by Christopher COLUMBUS on his first voyage in 1492, the island of Hispaniola became a springboard for Spanish conquest of the Caribbean and the American mainland. In 1697, Spain recognized French dominion over the western third of the island, which in 1804 became Haiti. The remainder of the island, by then known as Santo Domingo, sought to gain its own independence in 1821, but was conquered and ruled by the Haitians for 22 years; it finally attained independence as the Dominican Republic in 1844. In 1861, the Dominicans voluntarily returned to the Spanish Empire, but two years later they launched a war that restored independence in 1865. A legacy of unsettled, mostly non-representative rule followed, capped by the dictatorship of Rafael Leonidas TRUJILLO from 1930-61. Juan BOSCH was elected president in 1962, but was deposed in a military coup in 1963. In 1965, the United States led an intervention in the midst of a civil war sparked by an uprising to restore BOSCH. In 1966, Joaquin BALAGUER defeated BOSCH in an election to become president. BALAGUER maintained a tight grip on power for most of the next 30 years when international reaction to flawed elections forced him to curtail his term in 1996. Since then, regular competitive elections have been held in which opposition candidates have won the presidency. Former President (1996-2000) Leonel FERNANDEZ Reyna won election to a second term in 2004 following a constitutional amendment allowing presidents to serve more than one term. 
				Ecuador
			What is now Ecuador formed part of the northern Inca Empire until the Spanish conquest in 1533. Quito became a seat of Spanish colonial government in 1563 and part of the Viceroyalty of New Granada in 1717. The territories of the Viceroyalty - New Granada (Colombia), Venezuela, and Quito - gained their independence between 1819 and 1822 and formed a federation known as Gran Colombia. When Quito withdrew in 1830, the traditional name was changed in favor of the "Republic of the Equator." Between 1904 and 1942, Ecuador lost territories in a series of conflicts with its neighbors. A border war with Peru that flared in 1995 was resolved in 1999. Although Ecuador marked 25 years of civilian governance in 2004, the period has been marred by political instability. Protests in Quito have contributed to the mid-term ouster of Ecuador's last three democratically elected Presidents. In September 2008, voters approved a new constitution; Ecuador's twentieth since gaining independence. General elections, under the new constitutional framework, are expected in April 2009. 
				Egypt
			The regularity and richness of the annual Nile River flood, coupled with semi-isolation provided by deserts to the east and west, allowed for the development of one of the world's great civilizations. A unified kingdom arose circa 3200 B.C., and a series of dynasties ruled in Egypt for the next three millennia. The last native dynasty fell to the Persians in 341 B.C., who in turn were replaced by the Greeks, Romans, and Byzantines. It was the Arabs who introduced Islam and the Arabic language in the 7th century and who ruled for the next six centuries. A local military caste, the Mamluks took control about 1250 and continued to govern after the conquest of Egypt by the Ottoman Turks in 1517. Following the completion of the Suez Canal in 1869, Egypt became an important world transportation hub, but also fell heavily into debt. Ostensibly to protect its investments, Britain seized control of Egypt's government in 1882, but nominal allegiance to the Ottoman Empire continued until 1914. Partially independent from the UK in 1922, Egypt acquired full sovereignty with the overthrow of the British-backed monarchy in 1952. The completion of the Aswan High Dam in 1971 and the resultant Lake Nasser have altered the time-honored place of the Nile River in the agriculture and ecology of Egypt. A rapidly growing population (the largest in the Arab world), limited arable land, and dependence on the Nile all continue to overtax resources and stress society. The government has struggled to meet the demands of Egypt's growing population through economic reform and massive investment in communications and physical infrastructure. 
				El Salvador
			El Salvador achieved independence from Spain in 1821 and from the Central American Federation in 1839. A 12-year civil war, which cost about 75,000 lives, was brought to a close in 1992 when the government and leftist rebels signed a treaty that provided for military and political reforms. 
				Equatorial Guinea
			Equatorial Guinea gained independence in 1968 after 190 years of Spanish rule. This tiny country, composed of a mainland portion plus five inhabited islands, is one of the smallest on the African continent. President Teodoro OBIANG NGUEMA MBASOGO has ruled the country since 1979 when he seized power in a coup. Although nominally a constitutional democracy since 1991, the 1996 and 2002 presidential elections - as well as the 1999 and 2004 legislative elections - were widely seen as flawed. The president exerts almost total control over the political system and has discouraged political opposition. Equatorial Guinea has experienced rapid economic growth due to the discovery of large offshore oil reserves, and in the last decade has become Sub-Saharan Africa's third largest oil exporter. Despite the country's economic windfall from oil production resulting in a massive increase in government revenue in recent years, there have been few improvements in the population's living standards. 
				Eritrea
			Eritrea was awarded to Ethiopia in 1952 as part of a federation. Ethiopia's annexation of Eritrea as a province 10 years later sparked a 30-year struggle for independence that ended in 1991 with Eritrean rebels defeating governmental forces; independence was overwhelmingly approved in a 1993 referendum. A two-and-a-half-year border war with Ethiopia that erupted in 1998 ended under UN auspices in December 2000. Eritrea currently hosts a UN peacekeeping operation that is monitoring a 25 km-wide Temporary Security Zone (TSZ) on the border with Ethiopia. An international commission, organized to resolve the border dispute, posted its findings in 2002. However, both parties have been unable to reach agreement on implementing the decision. On 30 November 2007, the Eritrea-Ethiopia Boundary Commission remotely demarcated the border by coordinates and dissolved itself, leaving Ethiopia still occupying several tracts of disputed territory, including the town of Badme. Eritrea accepted the EEBC's "virtual demarcation" decision and called on Ethiopia to remove its troops from the TSZ which it states is Eritrean territory. Ethiopia has not accepted the virtual demarcation decision. 
				Estonia
			After centuries of Danish, Swedish, German, and Russian rule, Estonia attained independence in 1918. Forcibly incorporated into the USSR in 1940 - an action never recognized by the US - it regained its freedom in 1991, with the collapse of the Soviet Union. Since the last Russian troops left in 1994, Estonia has been free to promote economic and political ties with Western Europe. It joined both NATO and the EU in the spring of 2004. 
				Ethiopia
			Unique among African countries, the ancient Ethiopian monarchy maintained its freedom from colonial rule with the exception of the 1936-41 Italian occupation during World War II. In 1974, a military junta, the Derg, deposed Emperor Haile SELASSIE (who had ruled since 1930) and established a socialist state. Torn by bloody coups, uprisings, wide-scale drought, and massive refugee problems, the regime was finally toppled in 1991 by a coalition of rebel forces, the Ethiopian People's Revolutionary Democratic Front (EPRDF). A constitution was adopted in 1994, and Ethiopia's first multiparty elections were held in 1995. A border war with Eritrea late in the 1990s ended with a peace treaty in December 2000. The Eritrea-Ethiopia Border Commission in November 2007 remotely demarcated the border by geographical coordinates, but final demarcation of the boundary on the ground is currently on hold because of Ethiopian objections to an international commission's finding requiring it to surrender territory considered sensitive to Ethiopia. 
				European Union
			Following the two devastating World Wars of the first half of the 20th century, a number of European leaders in the late 1940s became convinced that the only way to establish a lasting peace was to unite the two chief belligerent nations - France and Germany - both economically and politically. In 1950, the French Foreign Minister Robert SCHUMAN proposed an eventual union of all Europe, the first step of which would be the integration of the coal and steel industries of Western Europe. The following year the European Coal and Steel Community (ECSC) was set up when six members, Belgium, France, West Germany, Italy, Luxembourg, and the Netherlands, signed the Treaty of Paris. 
			The ECSC was so successful that within a few years the decision was made to integrate other parts of the countries' economies. In 1957, the Treaties of Rome created the European Economic Community (EEC) and the European Atomic Energy Community (Euratom), and the six member states undertook to eliminate trade barriers among themselves by forming a common market. In 1967, the institutions of all three communities were formally merged into the European Community (EC), creating a single Commission, a single Council of Ministers, and the European Parliament. Members of the European Parliament were initially selected by national parliaments, but in 1979 the first direct elections were undertaken and they have been held every five years since.
			In 1973, the first enlargement of the EC took place with the addition of Denmark, Ireland, and the United Kingdom. The 1980s saw further membership expansion with Greece joining in 1981 and Spain and Portugal in 1986. The 1992 Treaty of Maastricht laid the basis for further forms of cooperation in foreign and defense policy, in judicial and internal affairs, and in the creation of an economic and monetary union - including a common currency. This further integration created the European Union (EU). In 1995, Austria, Finland, and Sweden joined the EU, raising the membership total to 15. 
			A new currency, the euro, was launched in world money markets on 1 January 1999; it became the unit of exchange for all of the EU states except the United Kingdom, Sweden, and Denmark. In 2002, citizens of the 12 euro-area countries began using the euro banknotes and coins. Ten new countries joined the EU in 2004 - Cyprus, the Czech Republic, Estonia, Hungary, Latvia, Lithuania, Malta, Poland, Slovakia, and Slovenia - and in 2007 Bulgaria and Romania joined, bringing the current membership to 27. In order to ensure that the EU can continue to function efficiently with an expanded membership, the Treaty of Nice (in force as of 1 February 2003) set forth rules streamlining the size and procedures of EU institutions. An effort to establish an EU constitution, begun in October 2004, failed to attain unanimous ratification. A new effort, undertaken in June 2007, calls for the creation of an Intergovernmental Conference to form a political agreement, known as the Reform Treaty, which is to serve as a constitution. Unlike the constitution, however, the Reform Treaty would amend existing treaties rather than replace them. 
				Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas)
			Although first sighted by an English navigator in 1592, the first landing (English) did not occur until almost a century later in 1690, and the first settlement (French) was not established until 1764. The colony was turned over to Spain two years later and the islands have since been the subject of a territorial dispute, first between Britain and Spain, then between Britain and Argentina. The UK asserted its claim to the islands by establishing a naval garrison there in 1833. Argentina invaded the islands on 2 April 1982. The British responded with an expeditionary force that landed seven weeks later and after fierce fighting forced an Argentine surrender on 14 June 1982. 
				Faroe Islands
			The population of the Faroe Islands is largely descended from Viking settlers who arrived in the 9th century. The islands have been connected politically to Denmark since the 14th century. A high degree of self government was attained in 1948. 
				Fiji
			Fiji became independent in 1970, after nearly a century as a British colony. Democratic rule was interrupted by two military coups in 1987, caused by concern over a government perceived as dominated by the Indian community (descendants of contract laborers brought to the islands by the British in the 19th century). The coups and a 1990 constitution that cemented native Melanesian control of Fiji, led to heavy Indian emigration; the population loss resulted in economic difficulties, but ensured that Melanesians became the majority. A new constitution enacted in 1997 was more equitable. Free and peaceful elections in 1999 resulted in a government led by an Indo-Fijian, but a civilian-led coup in May 2000 ushered in a prolonged period of political turmoil. Parliamentary elections held in August 2001 provided Fiji with a democratically elected government led by Prime Minister Laisenia QARASE. Re-elected in May 2006, QARASE was ousted in a December 2006 military coup led by Commodore Voreqe BAINIMARAMA, who initially appointed himself acting president, but in January 2007 became interim prime minister. Since taking power, BAINIMARAMA has neutralized his opponents, crippled Fiji's democratic institutions, and refused to hold elections. 
				Finland
			Finland was a province and then a grand duchy under Sweden from the 12th to the 19th centuries, and an autonomous grand duchy of Russia after 1809. It won its complete independence in 1917. During World War II, it was able to successfully defend its freedom and resist invasions by the Soviet Union - albeit with some loss of territory. In the subsequent half century, the Finns made a remarkable transformation from a farm/forest economy to a diversified modern industrial economy; per capita income is now among the highest in Western Europe. A member of the European Union since 1995, Finland was the only Nordic state to join the euro system at its initiation in January 1999. 
				France
			Although ultimately a victor in World Wars I and II, France suffered extensive losses in its empire, wealth, manpower, and rank as a dominant nation-state. Nevertheless, France today is one of the most modern countries in the world and is a leader among European nations. Since 1958, it has constructed a hybrid presidential-parliamentary governing system resistant to the instabilities experienced in earlier more purely parliamentary administrations. In recent years, its reconciliation and cooperation with Germany have proved central to the economic integration of Europe, including the introduction of a common exchange currency, the euro, in January 1999. At present, France is at the forefront of efforts to develop the EU's military capabilities to supplement progress toward an EU foreign policy. 
				French Polynesia
			The French annexed various Polynesian island groups during the 19th century. In September 1995, France stirred up widespread protests by resuming nuclear testing on the Mururoa atoll after a three-year moratorium. The tests were suspended in January 1996. In recent years, French Polynesia's autonomy has been considerably expanded. 
				French Southern and Antarctic Lands
			In February 2007, the Iles Eparses became an integral part of the French Southern and Antarctic Lands (TAAF). The Southern Lands are now divided into five administrative districts, two of which are archipelagos, Iles Crozet and Iles Kerguelen; the third is a district composed of two volcanic islands, Ile Saint-Paul and Ile Amsterdam; the fourth, Iles Eparses, consists of five scattered tropical islands around Madagascar. They contain no permanent inhabitants and are visited only by researchers studying the native fauna, scientists at the various scientific stations, fishermen, and military personnel. The fifth district is the Antarctic portion, which consists of "Adelie Land," a thin slice of the Antarctic continent discovered and claimed by the French in 1840. 
				Ile Amsterdam: Discovered but not named in 1522 by the Spanish, the island subsequently received the appellation of Nieuw Amsterdam from a Dutchman; it was claimed by France in 1843. A short-lived attempt at cattle farming began in 1871. A French meteorological station established on the island in 1949 is still in use. 
				Ile Saint Paul: Claimed by France since 1893, the island was a fishing industry center from 1843 to 1914. In 1928, a spiny lobster cannery was established, but when the company went bankrupt in 1931, seven workers were abandoned. Only two survived until 1934 when rescue finally arrived. 
				Iles Crozet: A large archipelago formed from the Crozet Plateau, Iles Crozet is divided into two main groups: L'Occidental (the West), which includes Ile aux Cochons, Ilots des Apotres, Ile des Pingouins, and the reefs Brisants de l'Heroine; and L'Oriental (the east), which includes Ile d'Est and Ile de la Possession (the largest island of the Crozets). Discovered and claimed by France in 1772, the islands were used for seal hunting and as a base for whaling. Originally administered as a dependency of Madagascar, they became part of the TAAF in 1955. 
				Iles Kerguelen: This island group, discovered in 1772, is made up of one large island (Ile Kerguelen) and about 300 smaller islands. A permanent group of 50 to 100 scientists resides at the main base at Port-aux-Francais. 
				Adelie Land: The only non-insular district of the TAAF is the Antarctic claim known as "Adelie Land." The US Government does not recognize it as a French dependency. 
				Bassas da India: A French possession since 1897, this atoll is a volcanic rock surrounded by reefs and is awash at high tide. 
				Europa Island: This heavily wooded island has been a French possession since 1897; it is the site of a small military garrison that staffs a weather station. 
				Glorioso Islands: A French possession since 1892, the Glorioso Islands are composed of two lushly vegetated coral islands (Ile Glorieuse and Ile du Lys) and three rock islets. A military garrison operates a weather and radio station on Ile Glorieuse. 
				Juan de Nova Island: Named after a famous 15th century Spanish navigator and explorer, the island has been a French possession since 1897. It has been exploited for its guano and phosphate. Presently a small military garrison oversees a meteorological station. 
				Tromelin Island: First explored by the French in 1776, the island came under the jurisdiction of Reunion in 1814. At present, it serves as a sea turtle sanctuary and is the site of an important meteorological station. 
				Gabon
			Only two autocratic presidents have ruled Gabon since independence from France in 1960. The current president of Gabon, El Hadj Omar BONGO Ondimba - one of the longest-serving heads of state in the world - has dominated the country's political scene for four decades. President BONGO introduced a nominal multiparty system and a new constitution in the early 1990s. However, allegations of electoral fraud during local elections in 2002-03 and the presidential elections in 2005 have exposed the weaknesses of formal political structures in Gabon. Gabon's political opposition remains weak, divided, and financially dependent on the current regime. Despite political conditions, a small population, abundant natural resources, and considerable foreign support have helped make Gabon one of the more prosperous and stable African countries. 
				Gambia, The
			The Gambia gained its independence from the UK in 1965. Geographically surrounded by Senegal, it formed a short-lived federation of Senegambia between 1982 and 1989. In 1991 the two nations signed a friendship and cooperation treaty, but tensions have flared up intermittently since then. Yahya A. J. J. JAMMEH led a military coup in 1994 that overthrew the president and banned political activity. A new constitution and presidential elections in 1996, followed by parliamentary balloting in 1997, completed a nominal return to civilian rule. JAMMEH has been elected president in all subsequent elections, including most recently in late 2006. 
				Gaza Strip
			The September 1993 Israel-PLO Declaration of Principles on Interim Self-Government Arrangements provided for a transitional period of Palestinian self-rule in the West Bank and Gaza Strip. Under a series of agreements signed between May 1994 and September 1999, Israel transferred to the Palestinian Authority (PA) security and civilian responsibility for Palestinian-populated areas of the West Bank and Gaza. Negotiations to determine the permanent status of the West Bank and Gaza stalled following the outbreak of an intifada in September 2000, as Israeli forces reoccupied most Palestinian-controlled areas. In April 2003, the Quartet (US, EU, UN, and Russia) presented a roadmap to a final settlement of the conflict by 2005 based on reciprocal steps by the two parties leading to two states, Israel and a democratic Palestine. The proposed date for a permanent status agreement was postponed indefinitely due to violence and accusations that both sides had not followed through on their commitments. Following Palestinian leader Yasir ARAFAT's death in late 2004, Mahmud ABBAS was elected PA president in January 2005. A month later, Israel and the PA agreed to the Sharm el-Sheikh Commitments in an effort to move the peace process forward. In September 2005, Israel unilaterally withdrew all its settlers and soldiers and dismantled its military facilities in the Gaza Strip and withdrew settlers and redeployed soldiers from four small northern West Bank settlements. Nonetheless, Israel controls maritime, airspace, and most access to the Gaza Strip. A November 2005 PA-Israeli agreement authorized the reopening of the Rafah border crossing between the Gaza Strip and Egypt under joint PA and Egyptian control. In January 2006, the Islamic Resistance Movement, HAMAS, won control of the Palestinian Legislative Council (PLC). The international community refused to accept the HAMAS-led government because it did not recognize Israel, would not renounce violence, and refused to honor previous peace agreements between Israel and the PA. HAMAS took control of the PA government in March 2006, but President ABBAS had little success negotiating with HAMAS to present a political platform acceptable to the international community so as to lift economic sanctions on Palestinians. The PLC was unable to convene throughout most of 2006 as a result of Israel's detention of many HAMAS PLC members and Israeli-imposed travel restrictions on other PLC members. Violent clashes took place between Fatah and HAMAS supporters in the Gaza Strip in 2006 and early 2007, resulting in numerous Palestinian deaths and injuries. ABBAS and HAMAS Political Bureau Chief MISHAL in February 2007 signed the Mecca Agreement in Saudi Arabia that resulted in the formation of a Palestinian National Unity Government (NUG) headed by HAMAS member Ismail HANIYA. However, fighting continued in the Gaza Strip, and in June, HAMAS militants succeeded in a violent takeover of all military and governmental institutions in the Gaza Strip. ABBAS dismissed the NUG and through a series of Presidential decrees formed a PA government in the West Bank led by independent Salam FAYYAD. HAMAS rejected the NUG's dismissal and has called for resuming talks with Fatah, but ABBAS has ruled out negotiations until HAMAS agrees to a return of PA control over the Gaza Strip and recognizes the FAYYAD-led government. FAYYAD and his PA government initiated a series of security and economic reforms to improve conditions in the West Bank. ABBAS participated in talks with Israel's Prime Minister OLMERT and secured the release of some Palestinian prisoners and previously withheld customs revenue. During a November 2007 international meeting in Annapolis Maryland, ABBAS and OLMERT agreed to resume peace negotiations with the goal of reaching a final peace settlement.
				Georgia
			The region of present-day Georgia contained the ancient kingdoms of Colchis and Kartli-Iberia. The area came under Roman influence in the first centuries A.D. and Christianity became the state religion in the 330s. Domination by Persians, Arabs, and Turks was followed by a Georgian golden age (11th-13th centuries) that was cut short by the Mongol invasion of 1236. Subsequently, the Ottoman and Persian empires competed for influence in the region. Georgia was absorbed into the Russian Empire in the 19th century. Independent for three years (1918-1921) following the Russian revolution, it was forcibly incorporated into the USSR until the Soviet Union dissolved in 1991. An attempt by the incumbent Georgian government to manipulate national legislative elections in November 2003 touched off widespread protests that led to the resignation of Eduard SHEVARDNADZE, president since 1995. New elections in early 2004 swept Mikheil SAAKASHVILI into power along with his National Movement party. Progress on market reforms and democratization has been made in the years since independence, but this progress has been complicated by Russian assistance and support to the breakaway regions of Abkhazia and South Ossetia. After a series of Russian and separatist provocations in summer 2008, Georgian military action in South Ossetia in early August led to a Russian military response that not only occupied the breakaway areas, but large portions of Georgia proper as well. Russian troops pulled back from most occupied Georgian territory, but in late August 2008 Russia unilaterally recognized the independence of Abkhazia and South Ossetia. This action was strongly condemned by most of the world's nations and international organizations. 
				Germany
			As Europe's largest economy and second most populous nation, Germany is a key member of the continent's economic, political, and defense organizations. European power struggles immersed Germany in two devastating World Wars in the first half of the 20th century and left the country occupied by the victorious Allied powers of the US, UK, France, and the Soviet Union in 1945. With the advent of the Cold War, two German states were formed in 1949: the western Federal Republic of Germany (FRG) and the eastern German Democratic Republic (GDR). The democratic FRG embedded itself in key Western economic and security organizations, the EC, which became the EU, and NATO, while the Communist GDR was on the front line of the Soviet-led Warsaw Pact. The decline of the USSR and the end of the Cold War allowed for German unification in 1990. Since then, Germany has expended considerable funds to bring Eastern productivity and wages up to Western standards. In January 1999, Germany and 10 other EU countries introduced a common European exchange currency, the euro. 
				Ghana
			Formed from the merger of the British colony of the Gold Coast and the Togoland trust territory, Ghana in 1957 became the first sub-Saharan country in colonial Africa to gain its independence. Ghana endured a long series of coups before Lt. Jerry RAWLINGS took power in 1981 and banned political parties. After approving a new constitution and restoring multiparty politics in 1992, RAWLINGS won presidential elections in 1992 and 1996, but was constitutionally prevented from running for a third term in 2000. John KUFUOR succeeded him and was reelected in 2004. Kufuor is constitutionally barred from running for a third term in upcoming Presidential elections, which are scheduled for December 2008. 
				Gibraltar
			Strategically important, Gibraltar was reluctantly ceded to Great Britain by Spain in the 1713 Treaty of Utrecht; the British garrison was formally declared a colony in 1830. In a referendum held in 1967, Gibraltarians voted overwhelmingly to remain a British dependency. The subsequent granting of autonomy in 1969 by the UK led to Spain closing the border and severing all communication links. A series of talks were held by the UK and Spain between 1997 and 2002 on establishing temporary joint sovereignty over Gibraltar. In response to these talks, the Gibraltar Government called a referendum in late 2002 in which the majority of citizens voted overwhelmingly against any sharing of sovereignty with Spain. Since the referendum, tripartite talks on other issues have been held with Spain, the UK, and Gibraltar, and in September 2006 a three-way agreement was signed. Spain agreed to remove restrictions on air movements, to speed up customs procedures, to implement international telephone dialing, and to allow mobile roaming agreements. Britain agreed to pay increased pensions to Spaniards who had been employed in Gibraltar before the border closed. Spain will be allowed to open a cultural institute from which the Spanish flag will fly. A new noncolonial constitution came into effect in 2007, but the UK retains responsibility for defense, foreign relations, internal security, and financial stability. 
				Greece
			Greece achieved independence from the Ottoman Empire in 1829. During the second half of the 19th century and the first half of the 20th century, it gradually added neighboring islands and territories, most with Greek-speaking populations. In World War II, Greece was first invaded by Italy (1940) and subsequently occupied by Germany (1941-44); fighting endured in a protracted civil war between supporters of the king and Communist rebels. Following the latter's defeat in 1949, Greece joined NATO in 1952. A military dictatorship, which in 1967 suspended many political liberties and forced the king to flee the country, lasted seven years. The 1974 democratic elections and a referendum created a parliamentary republic and abolished the monarchy. In 1981, Greece joined the EC (now the EU); it became the 12th member of the European Economic and Monetary Union in 2001. 
				Greenland
			Greenland, the world's largest island, is about 81% ice-capped. Vikings reached the island in the 10th century from Iceland; Danish colonization began in the 18th century, and Greenland was made an integral part of Denmark in 1953. It joined the European Community (now the EU) with Denmark in 1973, but withdrew in 1985 over a dispute centered on stringent fishing quotas. Greenland was granted self-government in 1979 by the Danish parliament; the law went into effect the following year. Greenland voted in favor of increased self-rule in November 2008, although Denmark continues to exercise control of Greenland's foreign affairs in consultation with Greenland's Home Rule Government. 
				Grenada
			Carib Indians inhabited Grenada when COLUMBUS discovered the island in 1498, but it remained uncolonized for more than a century. The French settled Grenada in the 17th century, established sugar estates, and imported large numbers of African slaves. Britain took the island in 1762 and vigorously expanded sugar production. In the 19th century, cacao eventually surpassed sugar as the main export crop; in the 20th century, nutmeg became the leading export. In 1967, Britain gave Grenada autonomy over its internal affairs. Full independence was attained in 1974, making Grenada one of the smallest independent countries in the Western Hemisphere. Grenada was seized by a Marxist military council on 19 October 1983. Six days later the island was invaded by US forces and those of six other Caribbean nations, which quickly captured the ringleaders and their hundreds of Cuban advisers. Free elections were reinstituted the following year and have continued since that time. Hurricane Ivan struck Grenada in September of 2004 causing severe damage. 
				Guam
			Guam was ceded to the US by Spain in 1898. Captured by the Japanese in 1941, it was retaken by the US three years later. The military installation on the island is one of the most strategically important US bases in the Pacific. 
				Guatemala
			The Mayan civilization flourished in Guatemala and surrounding regions during the first millennium A.D. After almost three centuries as a Spanish colony, Guatemala won its independence in 1821. During the second half of the 20th century, it experienced a variety of military and civilian governments, as well as a 36-year guerrilla war. In 1996, the government signed a peace agreement formally ending the conflict, which had left more than 100,000 people dead and had created, by some estimates, some 1 million refugees. 
				Guernsey
			Guernsey and the other Channel Islands represent the last remnants of the medieval Dukedom of Normandy, which held sway in both France and England. The islands were the only British soil occupied by German troops in World War II. Guernsey is a British crown dependency, but is not part of the UK. However, the UK Government is constitutionally responsible for its defense and international representation. 
				Guinea
			Guinea has had a history of authoritarian rule since gaining its independence from France in 1958. Lansana CONTE came to power in 1984 when the military seized the government after the death of the first president, Sekou TOURE. Guinea did not hold democratic elections until 1993 when Gen. CONTE (head of the military government) was elected president of the civilian government. He was reelected in 1998 and again in 2003, though all the polls were marred by irregularities. History repeated itself in December 2008 when following President CONTE's death, Capt. Moussa Dadis CAMARA led a military coup, seizing power and suspending the constitution as well as political and union activity. Guinea has maintained some semblance of internal stability despite spillover effects from conflict in Sierra Leone and Liberia. As those countries have rebuilt, however, Guinea's own vulnerability to political and economic crisis has increased. Declining economic conditions and popular dissatisfaction with corruption and bad governance prompted two massive strikes in 2006, and a third nationwide strike in early 2007. 
				Guinea-Bissau
			Since independence from Portugal in 1974, Guinea-Bissau has experienced considerable political and military upheaval. In 1980, a military coup established authoritarian dictator Joao Bernardo 'Nino' VIEIRA as president. Despite setting a path to a market economy and multiparty system, VIEIRA's regime was characterized by the suppression of political opposition and the purging of political rivals. Several coup attempts through the 1980s and early 1990s failed to unseat him. In 1994 VIEIRA was elected president in the country's first free elections. A military mutiny and resulting civil war in 1998 eventually led to VIEIRA's ouster in May 1999. In February 2000, a transitional government turned over power to opposition leader Kumba YALA, after he was elected president in transparent polling. In September 2003, after only three years in office, YALA was ousted by the military in a bloodless coup, and businessman Henrique ROSA was sworn in as interim president. In 2005, former President VIEIRA was re-elected president pledging to pursue economic development and national reconciliation. He was assassinated in March 2009; new elections are to take place in April 2009. 
				Guyana
			Originally a Dutch colony in the 17th century, by 1815 Guyana had become a British possession. The abolition of slavery led to black settlement of urban areas and the importation of indentured servants from India to work the sugar plantations. This ethnocultural divide has persisted and has led to turbulent politics. Guyana achieved independence from the UK in 1966, and since then it has been ruled mostly by socialist-oriented governments. In 1992, Cheddi JAGAN was elected president in what is considered the country's first free and fair election since independence. After his death five years later, his wife, Janet JAGAN, became president but resigned in 1999 due to poor health. Her successor, Bharrat JAGDEO, was reelected in 2001 and again in 2006. 
				Haiti
			The native Taino Amerindians - who inhabited the island of Hispaniola when it was discovered by COLUMBUS in 1492 - were virtually annihilated by Spanish settlers within 25 years. In the early 17th century, the French established a presence on Hispaniola, and in 1697, Spain ceded to the French the western third of the island, which later became Haiti. The French colony, based on forestry and sugar-related industries, became one of the wealthiest in the Caribbean, but only through the heavy importation of African slaves and considerable environmental degradation. In the late 18th century, Haiti's nearly half million slaves revolted under Toussaint L'OUVERTURE. After a prolonged struggle, Haiti became the first black republic to declare its independence in 1804. The poorest country in the Western Hemisphere, Haiti has been plagued by political violence for most of its history. After an armed rebellion led to the forced resignation and exile of President Jean-Bertrand ARISTIDE in February 2004, an interim government took office to organize new elections under the auspices of the United Nations Stabilization Mission in Haiti (MINUSTAH). Continued violence and technical delays prompted repeated postponements, but Haiti finally did inaugurate a democratically elected president and parliament in May of 2006. 
				Heard Island and McDonald Islands
			These uninhabited, barren, sub-Antarctic islands were transferred from the UK to Australia in 1947. Populated by large numbers of seal and bird species, the islands have been designated a nature preserve. 
				Holy See (Vatican City)
			Popes in their secular role ruled portions of the Italian peninsula for more than a thousand years until the mid 19th century, when many of the Papal States were seized by the newly united Kingdom of Italy. In 1870, the pope's holdings were further circumscribed when Rome itself was annexed. Disputes between a series of "prisoner" popes and Italy were resolved in 1929 by three Lateran Treaties, which established the independent state of Vatican City and granted Roman Catholicism special status in Italy. In 1984, a concordat between the Holy See and Italy modified certain of the earlier treaty provisions, including the primacy of Roman Catholicism as the Italian state religion. Present concerns of the Holy See include religious freedom, international development, the environment, the Middle East, China, the decline of religion in Europe, terrorism, interreligious dialogue and reconciliation, and the application of church doctrine in an era of rapid change and globalization. About one billion people worldwide profess the Catholic faith. 
				Honduras
			Once part of Spain's vast empire in the New World, Honduras became an independent nation in 1821. After two and a half decades of mostly military rule, a freely elected civilian government came to power in 1982. During the 1980s, Honduras proved a haven for anti-Sandinista contras fighting the Marxist Nicaraguan Government and an ally to Salvadoran Government forces fighting leftist guerrillas. The country was devastated by Hurricane Mitch in 1998, which killed about 5,600 people and caused approximately $2 billion in damage. 
				Hong Kong
			Occupied by the UK in 1841, Hong Kong was formally ceded by China the following year; various adjacent lands were added later in the 19th century. Pursuant to an agreement signed by China and the UK on 19 December 1984, Hong Kong became the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region (SAR) of the People's Republic of China on 1 July 1997. In this agreement, China promised that, under its "one country, two systems" formula, China's socialist economic system would not be imposed on Hong Kong and that Hong Kong would enjoy a high degree of autonomy in all matters except foreign and defense affairs for the next 50 years. 
				Hungary
			Hungary became a Christian kingdom in A.D. 1000 and for many centuries served as a bulwark against Ottoman Turkish expansion in Europe. The kingdom eventually became part of the polyglot Austro-Hungarian Empire, which collapsed during World War I. The country fell under Communist rule following World War II. In 1956, a revolt and an announced withdrawal from the Warsaw Pact were met with a massive military intervention by Moscow. Under the leadership of Janos KADAR in 1968, Hungary began liberalizing its economy, introducing so-called "Goulash Communism." Hungary held its first multiparty elections in 1990 and initiated a free market economy. It joined NATO in 1999 and the EU in 2004. 
				Iceland
			Settled by Norwegian and Celtic (Scottish and Irish) immigrants during the late 9th and 10th centuries A.D., Iceland boasts the world's oldest functioning legislative assembly, the Althing, established in 930. Independent for over 300 years, Iceland was subsequently ruled by Norway and Denmark. Fallout from the Askja volcano of 1875 devastated the Icelandic economy and caused widespread famine. Over the next quarter century, 20% of the island's population emigrated, mostly to Canada and the US. Limited home rule from Denmark was granted in 1874 and complete independence attained in 1944. Literacy, longevity, and social cohesion are first-rate by world standards. 
				India
			Aryan tribes from the northwest infiltrated onto the Indian subcontinent about 1500 B.C.; their merger with the earlier Dravidian inhabitants created the classical Indian culture. The Maurya Empire of the 4th and 3rd centuries B.C. - which reached its zenith under ASHOKA - united much of South Asia. The Golden Age ushered in by the Gupta dynasty (4th to 6th centuries A.D.) saw a flowering of Indian science, art, and culture. Arab incursions starting in the 8th century and Turkic in the 12th were followed by those of European traders, beginning in the late 15th century. By the 19th century, Britain had assumed political control of virtually all Indian lands. Indian armed forces in the British army played a vital role in both World Wars. Nonviolent resistance to British colonialism led by Mohandas GANDHI and Jawaharlal NEHRU brought independence in 1947. The subcontinent was divided into the secular state of India and the smaller Muslim state of Pakistan. A third war between the two countries in 1971 resulted in East Pakistan becoming the separate nation of Bangladesh. India's nuclear weapons testing in 1998 caused Pakistan to conduct its own tests that same year. Despite impressive gains in economic investment and output, India faces pressing problems such as significant overpopulation, environmental degradation, extensive poverty, and widespread corruption. 
				Indian Ocean
			The Indian Ocean is the third largest of the world's five oceans (after the Pacific Ocean and Atlantic Ocean, but larger than the Southern Ocean and Arctic Ocean). Four critically important access waterways are the Suez Canal (Egypt), Bab el Mandeb (Djibouti-Yemen), Strait of Hormuz (Iran-Oman), and Strait of Malacca (Indonesia-Malaysia). The decision by the International Hydrographic Organization in the spring of 2000 to delimit a fifth ocean, the Southern Ocean, removed the portion of the Indian Ocean south of 60 degrees south latitude. 
				Indonesia
			The Dutch began to colonize Indonesia in the early 17th century; Japan occupied the islands from 1942 to 1945. Indonesia declared its independence after Japan's surrender, but it required four years of intermittent negotiations, recurring hostilities, and UN mediation before the Netherlands agreed to transfer sovereignty in 1949. Indonesia's first free parliamentary election after decades of repressive rule took place in 1999. Indonesia is now the world's third-largest democracy, the world's largest archipelagic state, and home to the world's largest Muslim population. Current issues include: alleviating poverty, improving education, preventing terrorism, consolidating democracy after four decades of authoritarianism, implementing economic and financial reforms, stemming corruption, holding the military and police accountable for past human rights violations, addressing climate change, and controlling avian influenza. In 2005, Indonesia reached a historic peace agreement with armed separatists in Aceh, which led to democratic elections in December 2006. Indonesia continues to face a low intensity separatist movement in Papua. 
				Iran
			Known as Persia until 1935, Iran became an Islamic republic in 1979 after the ruling monarchy was overthrown and Shah Mohammad Reza PAHLAVI was forced into exile. Conservative clerical forces established a theocratic system of government with ultimate political authority vested in a learned religious scholar referred to commonly as the Supreme Leader who, according to the constitution, is accountable only to the Assembly of Experts. US-Iranian relations have been strained since a group of Iranian students seized the US Embassy in Tehran on 4 November 1979 and held it until 20 January 1981. During 1980-88, Iran fought a bloody, indecisive war with Iraq that eventually expanded into the Persian Gulf and led to clashes between US Navy and Iranian military forces between 1987 and 1988. Iran has been designated a state sponsor of terrorism for its activities in Lebanon and elsewhere in the world and remains subject to US, UN, and EU economic sanctions and export controls because of its continued involvement in terrorism and its nuclear weapons ambitions. Following the election of reformer Hojjat ol-Eslam Mohammad KHATAMI as president in 1997 and similarly a reformer Majles (parliament) in 2000, a campaign to foster political reform in response to popular dissatisfaction was initiated. The movement floundered as conservative politicians, through the control of unelected institutions, prevented reform measures from being enacted and increased repressive measures. Starting with nationwide municipal elections in 2003 and continuing through Majles elections in 2004, conservatives reestablished control over Iran's elected government institutions, which culminated with the August 2005 inauguration of hardliner Mahmud AHMADI-NEJAD as president. The UN Security Council has passed a number of resolutions (1696 in July 2006, 1737 in December 2006, 1747 in March 2007, 1803 in March 2008, and 1835 in September 2008) calling for Iran to suspend its uranium enrichment and reprocessing activities and comply with its IAEA obligations and responsibilities. Resolutions 1737, 1477, and 1803 subject a number of Iranian individuals and entities involved in Iran's nuclear and ballistic missile programs to sanctions. Additionally, several Iranian entities are subject to US sanctions under Executive Order 13382 designations for proliferation activities and EO 13224 designations for support of terrorism. 
				Iraq
			Formerly part of the Ottoman Empire, Iraq was occupied by Britain during the course of World War I; in 1920, it was declared a League of Nations mandate under UK administration. In stages over the next dozen years, Iraq attained its independence as a kingdom in 1932. A "republic" was proclaimed in 1958, but in actuality a series of strongmen ruled the country until 2003. The last was SADDAM Husayn. Territorial disputes with Iran led to an inconclusive and costly eight-year war (1980-88). In August 1990, Iraq seized Kuwait but was expelled by US-led, UN coalition forces during the Gulf War of January-February 1991. Following Kuwait's liberation, the UN Security Council (UNSC) required Iraq to scrap all weapons of mass destruction and long-range missiles and to allow UN verification inspections. Continued Iraqi noncompliance with UNSC resolutions over a period of 12 years led to the US-led invasion of Iraq in March 2003 and the ouster of the SADDAM Husayn regime. US forces remained in Iraq under a UNSC mandate until 31 December 2008 and under a bilateral Security Agreement thereafter, helping to provide security and to support the freely elected government. In October 2005, Iraqis approved a constitution in a national referendum and, pursuant to this document, elected a 275-member Council of Representatives (CoR) in December 2005. After the election, Ibrahim al-JAAFARI was selected as prime minister; he was replaced by Nuri al-MALIKI in May 2006. The CoR approved most cabinet ministers in May 2006, marking the transition to Iraq's first constitutional government in nearly a half century. On 31 January 2009, Iraq held elections for provincial councils in all provinces except for the three provinces comprising the Kurdistan Regional Government and at-Ta'mim (Kirkuk) province. 
				Ireland
			Celtic tribes arrived on the island between 600-150 B.C. Invasions by Norsemen that began in the late 8th century were finally ended when King Brian BORU defeated the Danes in 1014. English invasions began in the 12th century and set off more than seven centuries of Anglo-Irish struggle marked by fierce rebellions and harsh repressions. A failed 1916 Easter Monday Rebellion touched off several years of guerrilla warfare that in 1921 resulted in independence from the UK for 26 southern counties; six northern (Ulster) counties remained part of the UK. In 1949, Ireland withdrew from the British Commonwealth; it joined the European Community in 1973. Irish governments have sought the peaceful unification of Ireland and have cooperated with Britain against terrorist groups. A peace settlement for Northern Ireland is gradually being implemented despite some difficulties. In 2006, the Irish and British governments developed and began to implement the St. Andrews Agreement, building on the Good Friday Agreement approved in 1998. 
				Isle of Man
			Part of the Norwegian Kingdom of the Hebrides until the 13th century when it was ceded to Scotland, the isle came under the British crown in 1765. Current concerns include reviving the almost extinct Manx Gaelic language. Isle of Man is a British crown dependency but is not part of the UK. However, the UK Government remains constitutionally responsible for its defense and international representation. 
				Israel
			Following World War II, the British withdrew from their mandate of Palestine, and the UN partitioned the area into Arab and Jewish states, an arrangement rejected by the Arabs. Subsequently, the Israelis defeated the Arabs in a series of wars without ending the deep tensions between the two sides. The territories Israel occupied since the 1967 war are not included in the Israel country profile, unless otherwise noted. On 25 April 1982, Israel withdrew from the Sinai pursuant to the 1979 Israel-Egypt Peace Treaty. In keeping with the framework established at the Madrid Conference in October 1991, bilateral negotiations were conducted between Israel and Palestinian representatives and Syria to achieve a permanent settlement. Israel and Palestinian officials signed on 13 September 1993 a Declaration of Principles (also known as the "Oslo Accords") guiding an interim period of Palestinian self-rule. Outstanding territorial and other disputes with Jordan were resolved in the 26 October 1994 Israel-Jordan Treaty of Peace. In addition, on 25 May 2000, Israel withdrew unilaterally from southern Lebanon, which it had occupied since 1982. In April 2003, US President BUSH, working in conjunction with the EU, UN, and Russia - the "Quartet" - took the lead in laying out a roadmap to a final settlement of the conflict by 2005, based on reciprocal steps by the two parties leading to two states, Israel and a democratic Palestine. However, progress toward a permanent status agreement was undermined by Israeli-Palestinian violence between September 2003 and February 2005. An Israeli-Palestinian agreement reached at Sharm al-Sheikh in February 2005, along with an internally-brokered Palestinian ceasefire, significantly reduced the violence. In the summer of 2005, Israel unilaterally disengaged from the Gaza Strip, evacuating settlers and its military while retaining control over most points of entry into the Gaza Strip. The election of HAMAS in January 2006 to head the Palestinian Legislative Council froze relations between Israel and the Palestinian Authority (PA). Ehud OLMERT became prime minister in March 2006; he shelved plans to unilaterally evacuate from most of the West Bank following an Israeli military operation in Gaza in June-July 2006 and a 34-day conflict with Hizballah in Lebanon in June-August 2006. OLMERT in June 2007 resumed talks with the PA after HAMAS seized control of the Gaza Strip and PA President Mahmoud ABBAS formed a new government without HAMAS. OLMERT in September 2008 resigned in the wake of several corruption allegations, but remains prime minister until a new government is formed after the general election in February 2009. 
				Italy
			Italy became a nation-state in 1861 when the regional states of the peninsula, along with Sardinia and Sicily, were united under King Victor EMMANUEL II. An era of parliamentary government came to a close in the early 1920s when Benito MUSSOLINI established a Fascist dictatorship. His alliance with Nazi Germany led to Italy's defeat in World War II. A democratic republic replaced the monarchy in 1946 and economic revival followed. Italy was a charter member of NATO and the European Economic Community (EEC). It has been at the forefront of European economic and political unification, joining the Economic and Monetary Union in 1999. Persistent problems include illegal immigration, organized crime, corruption, high unemployment, sluggish economic growth, and the low incomes and technical standards of southern Italy compared with the prosperous north. 
				Jamaica
			The island - discovered by Christopher COLUMBUS in 1494 - was settled by the Spanish early in the 16th century. The native Taino Indians, who had inhabited Jamaica for centuries, were gradually exterminated and replaced by African slaves. England seized the island in 1655 and established a plantation economy based on sugar, cocoa, and coffee. The abolition of slavery in 1834 freed a quarter million slaves, many of whom became small farmers. Jamaica gradually obtained increasing independence from Britain, and in 1958 it joined other British Caribbean colonies in forming the Federation of the West Indies. Jamaica gained full independence when it withdrew from the Federation in 1962. Deteriorating economic conditions during the 1970s led to recurrent violence as rival gangs affiliated with the major political parties evolved into powerful organized crime networks involved in international drug smuggling and money laundering. Violent crime, drug trafficking, and poverty pose significant challenges to the government today. Nonetheless, many rural and resort areas remain relatively safe and contribute substantially to the economy. 
				Jan Mayen
			This desolate, arctic, mountainous island was named after a Dutch whaling captain who indisputably discovered it in 1614 (earlier claims are inconclusive). Visited only occasionally by seal hunters and trappers over the following centuries, the island came under Norwegian sovereignty in 1929. The long dormant Haakon VII Toppen/Beerenberg volcano resumed activity in 1970; the most recent eruption occurred in 1985. It is the northernmost active volcano on earth. 
				Japan
			In 1603, a Tokugawa shogunate (military dictatorship) ushered in a long period of isolation from foreign influence in order to secure its power. For more than two centuries this policy enabled Japan to enjoy stability and a flowering of its indigenous culture. Following the Treaty of Kanagawa with the US in 1854, Japan opened its ports and began to intensively modernize and industrialize. During the late 19th and early 20th centuries, Japan became a regional power that was able to defeat the forces of both China and Russia. It occupied Korea, Formosa (Taiwan), and southern Sakhalin Island. In 1931-32 Japan occupied Manchuria, and in 1937 it launched a full-scale invasion of China. Japan attacked US forces in 1941 - triggering America's entry into World War II - and soon occupied much of East and Southeast Asia. After its defeat in World War II, Japan recovered to become an economic power and a staunch ally of the US. While the emperor retains his throne as a symbol of national unity, elected politicians - with heavy input from bureaucrats and business executives - wield actual decisionmaking power. The economy experienced a major slowdown starting in the 1990s following three decades of unprecedented growth, but Japan still remains a major economic power, both in Asia and globally. 
				Jersey
			Jersey and the other Channel Islands represent the last remnants of the medieval Dukedom of Normandy that held sway in both France and England. These islands were the only British soil occupied by German troops in World War II. Jersey is a British crown dependency but is not part of the UK. However, the UK Government is constitutionally responsible for its defense and international representation. 
				Jordan
			Following World War I and the dissolution of the Ottoman Empire, the UK received a mandate to govern much of the Middle East. Britain separated out a semi-autonomous region of Transjordan from Palestine in the early 1920s, and the area gained its independence in 1946; it adopted the name of Jordan in 1950. The country's long-time ruler was King HUSSEIN (1953-99). A pragmatic leader, he successfully navigated competing pressures from the major powers (US, USSR, and UK), various Arab states, Israel, and a large internal Palestinian population. Jordan lost the West Bank to Israel in the 1967 war and barely managed to defeat Palestinian rebels who threatened to overthrow the monarchy in 1970. King HUSSEIN in 1988 permanently relinquished Jordanian claims to the West Bank. In 1989, he reinstituted parliamentary elections and initiated a gradual political liberalization; political parties were legalized in 1992. In 1994, he signed a peace treaty with Israel. King ABDALLAH II, the son of King HUSSEIN, assumed the throne following his father's death in February 1999. Since then, he has consolidated his power and undertaken an aggressive economic reform program. Jordan acceded to the World Trade Organization in 2000, and began to participate in the European Free Trade Association in 2001. In 2003, Jordan staunchly supported the Coalition ouster of Saddam in Iraq and following the outbreak of insurgent violence in Iraq, absorbed thousands of displaced Iraqis. Municipal elections were held in July 2007 under a system in which 20% of seats in all municipal councils were reserved by quota for women. Parliamentary elections were held in November 2007 and saw independent pro-government candidates win the vast majority of seats. In November 2007, King ABDALLAH instructed his new prime minister to focus on socioeconomic reform, developing a healthcare and housing network for civilians and military personnel, and improving the educational system. 
				Kazakhstan
			Native Kazakhs, a mix of Turkic and Mongol nomadic tribes who migrated into the region in the 13th century, were rarely united as a single nation. The area was conquered by Russia in the 18th century, and Kazakhstan became a Soviet Republic in 1936. During the 1950s and 1960s agricultural "Virgin Lands" program, Soviet citizens were encouraged to help cultivate Kazakhstan's northern pastures. This influx of immigrants (mostly Russians, but also some other deported nationalities) skewed the ethnic mixture and enabled non-Kazakhs to outnumber natives. Independence in 1991 caused many of these newcomers to emigrate. Kazakhstan's economy is larger than those of all the other Central Asian states combined, largely due to the country's vast natural resources and a recent history of political stability. Current issues include: developing a cohesive national identity; expanding the development of the country's vast energy resources and exporting them to world markets; achieving a sustainable economic growth; diversifying the economy outside the oil, gas, and mining sectors; enhancing Kazakhstan's competitiveness; and strengthening relations with neighboring states and other foreign powers. 
				Kenya
			Founding president and liberation struggle icon Jomo KENYATTA led Kenya from independence in 1963 until his death in 1978, when President Daniel Toroitich arap MOI took power in a constitutional succession. The country was a de facto one-party state from 1969 until 1982 when the ruling Kenya African National Union (KANU) made itself the sole legal party in Kenya. MOI acceded to internal and external pressure for political liberalization in late 1991. The ethnically fractured opposition failed to dislodge KANU from power in elections in 1992 and 1997, which were marred by violence and fraud, but were viewed as having generally reflected the will of the Kenyan people. President MOI stepped down in December 2002 following fair and peaceful elections. Mwai KIBAKI, running as the candidate of the multiethnic, united opposition group, the National Rainbow Coalition (NARC), defeated KANU candidate Uhuru KENYATTA and assumed the presidency following a campaign centered on an anticorruption platform. KIBAKI's NARC coalition splintered in 2005 over the constitutional review process. Government defectors joined with KANU to form a new opposition coalition, the Orange Democratic Movement, which defeated the government's draft constitution in a popular referendum in November 2005. KIBAKI's reelection in December 2007 brought charges of vote rigging from ODM candidate Raila ODINGA and unleashed two months of violence in which as many as 1,500 people died. UN-sponsored talks in late February produced a powersharing accord bringing ODINGA into the government in the restored position of prime minister. 
				Kiribati
			The Gilbert Islands became a British protectorate in 1892 and a colony in 1915; they were captured by the Japanese in the Pacific War in 1941. The islands of Makin and Tarawa were the sites of major US amphibious victories over entrenched Japanese garrisons in 1943. The Gilbert Islands were granted self-rule by the UK in 1971 and complete independence in 1979 under the new name of Kiribati. The US relinquished all claims to the sparsely inhabited Phoenix and Line Island groups in a 1979 treaty of friendship with Kiribati. 
				Korea, North
			An independent kingdom for much of its long history, Korea was occupied by Japan beginning in 1905 following the Russo-Japanese War. Five years later, Japan formally annexed the entire peninsula. Following World War II, Korea was split with the northern half coming under Soviet-sponsored Communist control. After failing in the Korean War (1950-53) to conquer the US-backed Republic of Korea (ROK) in the southern portion by force, North Korea (DPRK), under its founder President KIM Il Sung, adopted a policy of ostensible diplomatic and economic "self-reliance" as a check against outside influence. The DPRK demonized the US as the ultimate threat to its social system through state-funded propaganda, and molded political, economic, and military policies around the core ideological objective of eventual unification of Korea under Pyongyang's control. KIM's son, the current ruler KIM Jong Il, was officially designated as his father's successor in 1980, assuming a growing political and managerial role until the elder KIM's death in 1994. After decades of economic mismanagement and resource misallocation, the DPRK since the mid-1990s has relied heavily on international aid to feed its population. North Korea's history of regional military provocations, proliferation of military-related items, and long-range missile development - as well as its WMD programs and massive conventional armed forces - are of major concern to the international community. In December 2002, following revelations that the DPRK was pursuing a nuclear weapons program based on enriched uranium in violation of a 1994 agreement with the US to freeze and ultimately dismantle its existing plutonium-based program, North Korea expelled monitors from the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA). In January 2003, it declared its withdrawal from the international Non-Proliferation Treaty. In mid-2003 Pyongyang announced it had completed the reprocessing of spent nuclear fuel rods (to extract weapons-grade plutonium) and was developing a "nuclear deterrent." Beginning in August 2003, North Korea, China, Japan, Russia, South Korea, and the US have participated in the Six-Party Talks aimed at resolving the stalemate over the DPRK's nuclear programs. North Korea pulled out of the talks in November 2005. It test-fired ballistic missiles in July 2006 and conducted a nuclear test in October 2006. North Korea returned to the Six-Party Talks in December 2006 and subsequently signed two agreements on denuclearization. The 13 February 2007 Initial Actions Agreement led to the shut down of three of the North's nuclear facilities at Yongbyon in July 2007. In the 3 October 2007 Second Phase Actions Agreement, Pyongyang pledged to disable those three facilities and provide a correct and complete declaration of its nuclear programs by the end of the year. Under the supervision of US nuclear experts, North Korean personnel completed some of agreed-upon disablement actions at those three Yongbyon facilities by the end of 2007. North Korea began the discharge of spent fuel rods in December 2007 and provided a declaration of its nuclear program in June 2008. 
				Korea, South
			An independent Korean state or collection of states has existed almost continuously for several millennia. Between its initial unification in the 7th century - from three predecessor Korean states - until the 20th century, Korea existed as a single independent country. In 1905, following the Russo-Japanese War, Korea became a protectorate of imperial Japan, and in 1910 it was annexed as a colony. Korea regained its independence following Japan's surrender to the United States in 1945. After World War II, a Republic of Korea (ROK) was set up in the southern half of the Korean Peninsula while a Communist-style government was installed in the north (the DPRK). During the Korean War (1950-53), US troops and UN forces fought alongside soldiers from the ROK to defend South Korea from DPRK attacks supported by China and the Soviet Union. An armistice was signed in 1953, splitting the peninsula along a demilitarized zone at about the 38th parallel. Thereafter, South Korea achieved rapid economic growth with per capita income rising to roughly 14 times the level of North Korea. In 1993, KIM Young-sam became South Korea's first civilian president following 32 years of military rule. South Korea today is a fully functioning modern democracy. In June 2000, a historic first North-South summit took place between the South's President KIM Dae-jung and the North's leader KIM Jong Il. In October 2007, a second North-South summit took place between the South's President ROH Moo-hyun and the North Korean leader. Harsh rhetoric and unwillingness by North Korea to engage with President LEE Myung-bak following his February 2008 inauguration has strained inter-Korean relations. 
				Kosovo
			Ethnic Serbs migrated to the territories of modern Kosovo in the 7th century but did not fully incorporate them into the Serbian realm until the early 13th century. The defeat of the Serbian empire at the Battle of Kosovo in 1389 led to five centuries of Ottoman rule during which large numbers of Turks and Albanians moved to Kosovo. By the end of the 19th century, Albanians replaced the Serbs as the dominant ethnic group in Kosovo. Serbia reacquired control over Kosovo from the Ottoman Empire during the First Balkan War of 1912. Kosovo became an autonomous province of Serbia with status almost equivalent to that of a republic under the 1974 Constitution of the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. Despite legislative concessions, Albanian nationalism increased in the 1980s, which led to riots and calls for Kosovo's independence. At the same time, Serb nationalist leaders, such as Slobodan MILOSEVIC, exploited Kosovo Serb claims of maltreatment to secure votes from supporters, many of whom viewed Kosovo as their cultural heartland. Under MILOSEVIC's leadership, Serbia instituted a new constitution in 1989 that revoked Kosovo's status as an autonomous province of Serbia. Kosovo Albanian leaders responded in 1991 by organizing a referendum that declared Kosovo independent. Under MILOSEVIC, Serbia carried out repressive measures against the Albanians in the early 1990s as the unofficial Kosovo government, led by Ibrahim RUGOVA, used passive resistance in an attempt to try to gain international assistance and recognition of an independent Kosovo. Albanians dissatisfied with RUGOVA's passive strategy in the 1990s created the Kosovo Liberation Army and launched an insurgency. Starting in 1998, Serbian military, police, and paramilitary forces conducted a counterinsurgency campaign that resulted in massacres and massive expulsions of ethnic Albanians. International attempts to mediate the conflict failed, and MILOSEVIC's rejection of a proposed settlement led to a three-month NATO bombing campaign against Serbia beginning in March 1999 that forced Serbia to agree to withdraw its military and police forces from Kosovo. UN Security Council Resolution 1244 (1999) placed Kosovo under a transitional administration, the UN Interim Administration Mission in Kosovo (UNMIK), pending a determination of Kosovo's future status. A UN-led process began in late 2005 to determine Kosovo's final status. The negotiations ran in stages between 2006 and 2007, but ended without agreement between Belgrade and Pristina. On 17 February 2008, the Kosovo Assembly declared Kosovo independent. Since then, over fifty countries have recognized Kosovo. Serbia continues to reject Kosovo's independence and subsequently has sought an advisory opinion from the International Court of Justice on the legality under international law of Kosovo's independence declaration. 
				Kuwait
			Britain oversaw foreign relations and defense for the ruling Kuwaiti AL-SABAH dynasty from 1899 until independence in 1961. Kuwait was attacked and overrun by Iraq on 2 August 1990. Following several weeks of aerial bombardment, a US-led, UN coalition began a ground assault on 23 February 1991 that liberated Kuwait in four days. Kuwait spent more than $5 billion to repair oil infrastructure damaged during 1990-91. The AL-SABAH family has ruled since returning to power in 1991 and reestablished an elected legislature that in recent years has become increasingly assertive. 
				Kyrgyzstan
			A Central Asian country of incredible natural beauty and proud nomadic traditions, most of Kyrgyzstan was formally annexed to Russia in 1876. The Kyrgyz staged a major revolt against the Tsarist Empire in 1916 in which almost one-sixth of the Kyrgyz population was killed. Kyrgyzstan became a Soviet republic in 1936 and achieved independence in 1991 when the USSR dissolved. Nationwide demonstrations in the spring of 2005 resulted in the ouster of President Askar AKAEV, who had run the country since 1990. Subsequent presidential elections in July 2005 were won overwhelmingly by former prime minister Kurmanbek BAKIEV. The political opposition organized demonstrations in Bishkek in April, May, and November 2006 resulting in the adoption of a new constitution that transferred some of the president's powers to parliament and the government. In December 2006, the Kyrgyzstani parliament voted to adopt new amendments, restoring some of the presidential powers lost in the November 2006 constitutional change. By late-September 2007, both previous versions of the constitution were declared illegal, and the country reverted to the AKAEV-era 2003 constitution, which was subsequently modified in a flawed referendum initiated by BAKIEV. The president then dissolved parliament, called for early elections, and gained control of the new parliament through his newly-created political party, Ak Jol, in December 2007 elections. Current concerns include: privatization of state-owned enterprises, negative trends in democracy and political freedoms, reduction of corruption, improving interethnic relations, electricity generation, rising food prices, and combating terrorism. 
				Laos
			Modern-day Laos has its roots in the ancient Lao kingdom of Lan Xang, established in the 14th Century under King FA NGUM. For 300 years Lan Xang had influence reaching into present-day Cambodia and Thailand, as well as over all of what is now Laos. After centuries of gradual decline, Laos came under the domination of Siam (Thailand) from the late 18th century until the late 19th century when it became part of French Indochina. The Franco-Siamese Treaty of 1907 defined the current Lao border with Thailand. In 1975, the Communist Pathet Lao took control of the government ending a six-century-old monarchy and instituting a strict socialist regime closely aligned to Vietnam. A gradual return to private enterprise and the liberalization of foreign investment laws began in 1986. Laos became a member of ASEAN in 1997. 
				Latvia
			The name "Latvia" originates from the ancient Latgalians, one of four eastern Baltic tribes that formed the ethnic core of the Latvian people (ca. 8th-12th centuries A.D.). The region subsequently came under the control of Germans, Poles, Swedes, and finally, Russians. A Latvian republic emerged following World War I, but it was annexed by the USSR in 1940 - an action never recognized by the US and many other countries. Latvia reestablished its independence in 1991 following the breakup of the Soviet Union. Although the last Russian troops left in 1994, the status of the Russian minority (some 30% of the population) remains of concern to Moscow. Latvia joined both NATO and the EU in the spring of 2004. 
				Lebanon
			Following the capture of Syria from the Ottoman Empire by Anglo-French forces in 1918, France received a mandate over this territory and separated out the region of Lebanon in 1920. France granted this area independence in 1943. A lengthy civil war (1975-1990) devastated the country, but Lebanon has since made progress toward rebuilding its political institutions. Under the Ta'if Accord - the blueprint for national reconciliation - the Lebanese established a more equitable political system, particularly by giving Muslims a greater voice in the political process while institutionalizing sectarian divisions in the government. Since the end of the war, Lebanon has conducted several successful elections. Most militias have been disbanded, with the exception of Hizballah, designated by the US State Department as a Foreign Terrorist Organization, and Palestinian militant groups. During Lebanon's civil war, the Arab League legitimized in the Ta'if Accord Syria's troop deployment, numbering about 16,000 based mainly east of Beirut and in the Bekaa Valley. Israel's withdrawal from southern Lebanon in May 2000 and the passage in September 2004 of UNSCR 1559 - a resolution calling for Syria to withdraw from Lebanon and end its interference in Lebanese affairs - encouraged some Lebanese groups to demand that Syria withdraw its forces as well. The assassination of former Prime Minister Rafiq HARIRI and 22 others in February 2005 led to massive demonstrations in Beirut against the Syrian presence ("the Cedar Revolution"), and Syria withdrew the remainder of its military forces in April 2005. In May-June 2005, Lebanon held its first legislative elections since the end of the civil war free of foreign interference, handing a majority to the bloc led by Saad HARIRI, the slain prime minister's son. In July 2006, Hizballah kidnapped two Israeli soldiers leading to a 34-day conflict with Israel in which approximately 1,200 Lebanese civilians were killed. UNSCR 1701 ended the war in August 2006, and Lebanese Armed Forces (LAF) deployed throughout the country for the first time in decades, charged with securing Lebanon's borders against weapons smuggling and maintaining a weapons-free zone in south Lebanon with the help of the UN Interim Force in Lebanon (UNIFIL). The LAF in May-September 2007 battled Sunni extremist group Fatah al-Islam in the Nahr al-Barid Palestinian refugee camp, winning a decisive victory, but destroying the camp and displacing 30,000 Palestinian residents. Lebanese politicians in November 2007 were unable to agree on a successor to Emile LAHUD when he stepped down as president, creating a political vacuum until the election of Army Commander Michel SULAYMAN in May 2008 and the formation of a new unity government in July 2008. 
				Lesotho
			Basutoland was renamed the Kingdom of Lesotho upon independence from the UK in 1966. The Basuto National Party ruled for the first two decades. King MOSHOESHOE was exiled in 1990, but returned to Lesotho in 1992 and was reinstated in 1995. Constitutional government was restored in 1993 after seven years of military rule. In 1998, violent protests and a military mutiny following a contentious election prompted a brief but bloody intervention by South African and Botswanan military forces under the aegis of the Southern African Development Community. Subsequent constitutional reforms restored relative political stability. Peaceful parliamentary elections were held in 2002, but the National Assembly elections of February 2007 were hotly contested and aggrieved parties continue to periodically demonstrate their distrust of the results. 
				Liberia
			Settlement of freed slaves from the US in what is today Liberia began in 1822; by 1847, the Americo-Liberians were able to establish a republic. William TUBMAN, president from 1944-71, did much to promote foreign investment and to bridge the economic, social, and political gaps between the descendents of the original settlers and the inhabitants of the interior. In 1980, a military coup led by Samuel DOE ushered in a decade of authoritarian rule. In December 1989, Charles TAYLOR launched a rebellion against DOE's regime that led to a prolonged civil war in which DOE himself was killed. A period of relative peace in 1997 allowed for elections that brought TAYLOR to power, but major fighting resumed in 2000. An August 2003 peace agreement ended the war and prompted the resignation of former president Charles TAYLOR, who faces war crimes charges in The Hague related to his involvement in Sierra Leone's civil war. After two years of rule by a transitional government, democratic elections in late 2005 brought President Ellen JOHNSON SIRLEAF to power. The UN Mission in Liberia (UNMIL) maintains a strong presence throughout the country, but the security situation is still fragile and the process of rebuilding the social and economic structure of this war-torn country will take many years. 
				Libya
			The Italians supplanted the Ottoman Turks in the area around Tripoli in 1911 and did not relinquish their hold until 1943 when defeated in World War II. Libya then passed to UN administration and achieved independence in 1951. Following a 1969 military coup, Col. Muammar Abu Minyar al-QADHAFI began to espouse his own political system, the Third Universal Theory. The system is a combination of socialism and Islam derived in part from tribal practices and is supposed to be implemented by the Libyan people themselves in a unique form of "direct democracy." QADHAFI has always seen himself as a revolutionary and visionary leader. He used oil funds during the 1970s and 1980s to promote his ideology outside Libya, supporting subversives and terrorists abroad to hasten the end of Marxism and capitalism. In addition, beginning in 1973, he engaged in military operations in northern Chad's Aozou Strip - to gain access to minerals and to use as a base of influence in Chadian politics - but was forced to retreat in 1987. UN sanctions in 1992 isolated QADHAFI politically following the downing of Pan AM Flight 103 over Lockerbie, Scotland. During the 1990s, QADHAFI began to rebuild his relationships with Europe. UN sanctions were suspended in April 1999 and finally lifted in September 2003 after Libya accepted responsibility for the Lockerbie bombing. In December 2003, Libya announced that it had agreed to reveal and end its programs to develop weapons of mass destruction and to renounce terrorism. QADHAFI has made significant strides in normalizing relations with Western nations since then. He has received various Western European leaders as well as many working-level and commercial delegations, and made his first trip to Western Europe in 15 years when he traveled to Brussels in April 2004. The US rescinded Libya's designation as a state sponsor of terrorism in June 2006. In January 2008, Libya assumed a nonpermanent seat on the United Nations Security Council for the 2008/09 term. In August 2008, the US and Libya signed a bilateral comprehensive claims settlement agreement to compensate claimants in both countries who allege injury or death at the hands of the other country, including the Lockerbie bombing, the LaBelle disco bombing, and the UTA 772 bombing. In October 2008, the US Government received $1.5 billion pursuant to the agreement to distribute to US national claimants, and as a result effectively normalized its bilateral relationship with Libya. The two countries then exchanged ambassadors for the first time since 1973 in January 2009. 
				Liechtenstein
			The Principality of Liechtenstein was established within the Holy Roman Empire in 1719. Occupied by both French and Russian troops during the Napoleanic wars, it became a sovereign state in 1806 and joined the Germanic Confederation in 1815. Liechtenstein became fully independent in 1866 when the Confederation dissolved. Until the end of World War I, it was closely tied to Austria, but the economic devastation caused by that conflict forced Liechtenstein to enter into a customs and monetary union with Switzerland. Since World War II (in which Liechtenstein remained neutral), the country's low taxes have spurred outstanding economic growth. In 2000, shortcomings in banking regulatory oversight resulted in concerns about the use of financial institutions for money laundering. However, Liechtenstein implemented anti-money-laundering legislation and a Mutual Legal Assistance Treaty with the US went into effect in 2003. 
				Lithuania
			Lithuanian lands were united under MINDAUGAS in 1236; over the next century, through alliances and conquest, Lithuania extended its territory to include most of present-day Belarus and Ukraine. By the end of the 14th century Lithuania was the largest state in Europe. An alliance with Poland in 1386 led the two countries into a union through the person of a common ruler. In 1569, Lithuania and Poland formally united into a single dual state, the Polish-Lithuanian Commonwealth. This entity survived until 1795, when its remnants were partitioned by surrounding countries. Lithuania regained its independence following World War I but was annexed by the USSR in 1940 - an action never recognized by the US and many other countries. On 11 March 1990, Lithuania became the first of the Soviet republics to declare its independence, but Moscow did not recognize this proclamation until September of 1991 (following the abortive coup in Moscow). The last Russian troops withdrew in 1993. Lithuania subsequently restructured its economy for integration into Western European institutions; it joined both NATO and the EU in the spring of 2004. 
				Luxembourg
			Founded in 963, Luxembourg became a grand duchy in 1815 and an independent state under the Netherlands. It lost more than half of its territory to Belgium in 1839, but gained a larger measure of autonomy. Full independence was attained in 1867. Overrun by Germany in both World Wars, it ended its neutrality in 1948 when it entered into the Benelux Customs Union and when it joined NATO the following year. In 1957, Luxembourg became one of the six founding countries of the European Economic Community (later the European Union), and in 1999 it joined the euro currency area. 
				Macau
			Colonized by the Portuguese in the 16th century, Macau was the first European settlement in the Far East. Pursuant to an agreement signed by China and Portugal on 13 April 1987, Macau became the Macau Special Administrative Region (SAR) of the People's Republic of China on 20 December 1999. In this agreement, China promised that, under its "one country, two systems" formula, China's socialist economic system would not be practiced in Macau, and that Macau would enjoy a high degree of autonomy in all matters except foreign and defense affairs for the next 50 years. 
				Macedonia
			Macedonia gained its independence peacefully from Yugoslavia in 1991, but Greece's objection to the new state's use of what it considered a Hellenic name and symbols delayed international recognition, which occurred under the provisional designation of "the Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia." In 1995, Greece lifted a 20-month trade embargo and the two countries agreed to normalize relations. The United States began referring to Macedonia by its constitutional name, Republic of Macedonia, in 2004 and negotiations continue between Greece and Macedonia to resolve the name issue. Some ethnic Albanians, angered by perceived political and economic inequities, launched an insurgency in 2001 that eventually won the support of the majority of Macedonia's Albanian population and led to the internationally-brokered Framework Agreement, which ended the fighting by establishing a set of new laws enhancing the rights of minorities. Fully implementating the Framework Agreement and stimulating economic growth and development continue to be challenges for Macedonia, although progress has been made on both fronts over the past several years. 
				Madagascar
			Formerly an independent kingdom, Madagascar became a French colony in 1896 but regained independence in 1960. During 1992-93, free presidential and National Assembly elections were held ending 17 years of single-party rule. In 1997, in the second presidential race, Didier RATSIRAKA, the leader during the 1970s and 1980s, was returned to the presidency. The 2001 presidential election was contested between the followers of Didier RATSIRAKA and Marc RAVALOMANANA, nearly causing secession of half of the country. In April 2002, the High Constitutional Court announced RAVALOMANANA the winner. RAVALOMANANA is now in his second term following a landslide victory in the generally free and fair presidential elections of 2006. 
				Malawi
			Established in 1891, the British protectorate of Nyasaland became the independent nation of Malawi in 1964. After three decades of one-party rule under President Hastings Kamuzu BANDA the country held multiparty elections in 1994, under a provisional constitution that came into full effect the following year. Current President Bingu wa MUTHARIKA, elected in May 2004 after a failed attempt by the previous president to amend the constitution to permit another term, struggled to assert his authority against his predecessor and subsequently started his own party, the Democratic Progressive Party (DPP) in 2005. As president, MUTHARIKA has overseen substantial economic improvement but because of political deadlock in the legislature, his minority party has been unable to pass significant legislation, and anti-corruption measures have stalled. Population growth, increasing pressure on agricultural lands, corruption, and the spread of HIV/AIDS pose major problems for Malawi. 
				Malaysia
			During the late 18th and 19th centuries, Great Britain established colonies and protectorates in the area of current Malaysia; these were occupied by Japan from 1942 to 1945. In 1948, the British-ruled territories on the Malay Peninsula formed the Federation of Malaya, which became independent in 1957. Malaysia was formed in 1963 when the former British colonies of Singapore and the East Malaysian states of Sabah and Sarawak on the northern coast of Borneo joined the Federation. The first several years of the country's history were marred by a Communist insurgency, Indonesian confrontation with Malaysia, Philippine claims to Sabah, and Singapore's secession from the Federation in 1965. During the 22-year term of Prime Minister MAHATHIR bin Mohamad (1981-2003), Malaysia was successful in diversifying its economy from dependence on exports of raw materials to expansion in manufacturing, services, and tourism. 
				Maldives
			The Maldives was long a sultanate, first under Dutch and then under British protection. It became a republic in 1968, three years after independence. President Maumoon Abdul GAYOOM dominated the islands' political scene for 30 years, elected to six successive terms by single-party referendums. Following riots in the capital Male in August 2004, the president and his government pledged to embark upon democratic reforms including a more representative political system and expanded political freedoms. Progress was sluggish, however, and many promised reforms were slow to be realized. Nonetheless, political parties were legalized in 2005. In June 2008, a constituent assembly - termed the "Special Majlis" - finalized a new constitution, which was ratified by the president in August. The first-ever presidential elections under a multi-candidate, multi-party system were held in October 2008. GAYOOM was defeated in a runoff poll by Mohamed NASHEED, a political activist who had been jailed several years earlier by the former regime. Challenges facing the new president include strengthening democracy and combating poverty and drug abuse. 
				Mali
			The Sudanese Republic and Senegal became independent of France in 1960 as the Mali Federation. When Senegal withdrew after only a few months, what formerly made up the Sudanese Republic was renamed Mali. Rule by dictatorship was brought to a close in 1991 by a military coup - led by the current president Amadou TOURE - enabling Mali's emergence as one of the strongest democracies on the continent. President Alpha KONARE won Mali's first democratic presidential election in 1992 and was reelected in 1997. In keeping with Mali's two-term constitutional limit, KONARE stepped down in 2002 and was succeeded by Amadou TOURE, who was subsequently elected to a second term in 2007. The elections were widely judged to be free and fair. 
				Malta
			Great Britain formally acquired possession of Malta in 1814. The island staunchly supported the UK through both World Wars and remained in the Commonwealth when it became independent in 1964. A decade later Malta became a republic. Since about the mid-1980s, the island has transformed itself into a freight transshipment point, a financial center, and a tourist destination. Malta became an EU member in May 2004 and began to use the euro as currency in 2008. 
				Marshall Islands
			After almost four decades under US administration as the easternmost part of the UN Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands, the Marshall Islands attained independence in 1986 under a Compact of Free Association. Compensation claims continue as a result of US nuclear testing on some of the atolls between 1947 and 1962. The Marshall Islands hosts the US Army Kwajalein Atoll (USAKA) Reagan Missile Test Site, a key installation in the US missile defense network. 
				Mauritania
			Independent from France in 1960, Mauritania annexed the southern third of the former Spanish Sahara (now Western Sahara) in 1976, but relinquished it after three years of raids by the Polisario guerrilla front seeking independence for the territory. Maaouya Ould Sid Ahmed TAYA seized power in a coup in 1984 and ruled Mauritania with a heavy hand for over two decades. A series of presidential elections that he held were widely seen as flawed. A bloodless coup in August 2005 deposed President TAYA and ushered in a military council that oversaw a transition to democratic rule. Independent candidate Sidi Ould Cheikh ABDALLAHI was inaugurated in April 2007 as Mauritania's first freely and fairly elected president. His term ended prematurely in August 2008 when a military junta deposed him and ushered in a military council government. Meanwhile, the country continues to experience ethnic tensions among its black population (Afro-Mauritanians) and White and Black Moor (Arab-Berber) communities. 
				Mauritius
			Although known to Arab and Malay sailors as early as the 10th century, Mauritius was first explored by the Portuguese in the 16th century and subsequently settled by the Dutch - who named it in honor of Prince Maurits van NASSAU - in the 17th century. The French assumed control in 1715, developing the island into an important naval base overseeing Indian Ocean trade, and establishing a plantation economy of sugar cane. The British captured the island in 1810, during the Napoleonic Wars. Mauritius remained a strategically important British naval base, and later an air station, playing an important role during World War II for anti-submarine and convoy operations, as well as the collection of signals intelligence. Independence from the UK was attained in 1968. A stable democracy with regular free elections and a positive human rights record, the country has attracted considerable foreign investment and has earned one of Africa's highest per capita incomes. Recent poor weather, declining sugar prices, and declining textile and apparel production, have slowed economic growth, leading to some protests over standards of living in the Creole community. 
				Mayotte
			Mayotte was ceded to France along with the other islands of the Comoros group in 1843. It was the only island in the archipelago that voted in 1974 to retain its link with France and forego independence. 
				Mexico
			The site of advanced Amerindian civilizations, Mexico came under Spanish rule for three centuries before achieving independence early in the 19th century. A devaluation of the peso in late 1994 threw Mexico into economic turmoil, triggering the worst recession in over half a century. The nation had been making an impressive recovery until the global financial crisis hit in late 2008. Ongoing economic and social concerns include low real wages, underemployment for a large segment of the population, inequitable income distribution, and few advancement opportunities for the largely Amerindian population in the impoverished southern states. The elections held in 2000 marked the first time since the 1910 Mexican Revolution that an opposition candidate - Vicente FOX of the National Action Party (PAN) - defeated the party in government, the Institutional Revolutionary Party (PRI). He was succeeded in 2006 by another PAN candidate Felipe CALDERON. 
				Micronesia, Federated States of
			In 1979 the Federated States of Micronesia, a UN Trust Territory under US administration, adopted a constitution. In 1986 independence was attained under a Compact of Free Association with the US, which was amended and renewed in 2004. Present concerns include large-scale unemployment, overfishing, and overdependence on US aid. 
				Moldova
			Part of Romania during the interwar period, Moldova was incorporated into the Soviet Union at the close of World War II. Although independent from the USSR since 1991, Russian forces have remained on Moldovan territory east of the Dniester River supporting the Slavic majority population, mostly Ukrainians and Russians, who have proclaimed a "Transnistria" republic. One of the poorest nations in Europe, Moldova became the first former Soviet state to elect a Communist as its president in 2001. 
				Monaco
			The Genoese built a fortress on the site of present-day Monaco in 1215. The current ruling Grimaldi family secured control in the late 13th century, and a principality was established in 1338. Economic development was spurred in the late 19th century with a railroad linkup to France and the opening of a casino. Since then, the principality's mild climate, splendid scenery, and gambling facilities have made Monaco world famous as a tourist and recreation center. 
				Mongolia
			The Mongols gained fame in the 13th century when under Chinggis KHAN they established a huge Eurasian empire through conquest. After his death the empire was divided into several powerful Mongol states, but these broke apart in the 14th century. The Mongols eventually retired to their original steppe homelands and in the late 17th century came under Chinese rule. Mongolia won its independence in 1921 with Soviet backing and a Communist regime was installed in 1924. The modern country of Mongolia, however, represents only part of the Mongols' historical homeland; more Mongols live in the Inner Mongolia Autonomous Region in the People's Republic of China than in Mongolia. Following a peaceful democratic revolution, the ex-Communist Mongolian People's Revolutionary Party (MPRP) won elections in 1990 and 1992, but was defeated by the Democratic Union Coalition (DUC) in the 1996 parliamentary election. The MPRP won an overwhelming majority in the 2000 parliamentary election, but the party lost seats in the 2004 election and shared power with democratic coalition parties from 2004-2008. The MPRP regained a solid majority in the 2008 parliamentary elections but nevertheless formed a coalition government with the Democratic Party. The prime minister and most cabinet members are MPRP members. 
				Montenegro
			The use of the name Montenegro began in the 15th century when the Crnojevic dynasty began to rule the Serbian principality of Zeta; over subsequent centuries Montenegro was able to maintain its independence from the Ottoman Empire. From the 16th to 19th centuries, Montenegro became a theocracy ruled by a series of bishop princes; in 1852, it was transformed into a secular principality. After World War I, Montenegro was absorbed by the Kingdom of Serbs, Croats, and Slovenes, which became the Kingdom of Yugoslavia in 1929; at the conclusion of World War II, it became a constituent republic of the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. When the latter dissolved in 1992, Montenegro federated with Serbia, first as the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia and, after 2003, in a looser union of Serbia and Montenegro. In May 2006, Montenegro invoked its right under the Constitutional Charter of Serbia and Montenegro to hold a referendum on independence from the state union. The vote for severing ties with Serbia exceeded 55% - the threshold set by the EU - allowing Montenegro to formally declare its independence on 3 June 2006. 
				Montserrat
			English and Irish colonists from St. Kitts first settled on Montserrat in 1632; the first African slaves arrived three decades later. The British and French fought for possession of the island for most of the 18th century, but it finally was confirmed as a British possession in 1783. The island's sugar plantation economy was converted to small farm landholdings in the mid 19th century. Much of this island was devastated and two-thirds of the population fled abroad because of the eruption of the Soufriere Hills Volcano that began on 18 July 1995. Montserrat has endured volcanic activity since, with the last eruption occurring in July 2003. 
				Morocco
			In 788, about a century after the Arab conquest of North Africa, successive Moorish dynasties began to rule in Morocco. In the 16th century, the Sa'adi monarchy, particularly under Ahmad AL-MANSUR (1578-1603), repelled foreign invaders and inaugurated a golden age. In 1860, Spain occupied northern Morocco and ushered in a half century of trade rivalry among European powers that saw Morocco's sovereignty steadily erode; in 1912, the French imposed a protectorate over the country. A protracted independence struggle with France ended successfully in 1956. The internationalized city of Tangier and most Spanish possessions were turned over to the new country that same year. Morocco virtually annexed Western Sahara during the late 1970s, but final resolution on the status of the territory remains unresolved. Gradual political reforms in the 1990s resulted in the establishment of a bicameral legislature, which first met in 1997. The country has made improvements in human rights under King MOHAMMED VI and its press is moderately free. Despite the continuing reforms, ultimate authority remains in the hands of the monarch. 
				Mozambique
			Almost five centuries as a Portuguese colony came to a close with independence in 1975. Large-scale emigration by whites, economic dependence on South Africa, a severe drought, and a prolonged civil war hindered the country's development until the mid 1990's. The ruling Front for the Liberation of Mozambique (FRELIMO) party formally abandoned Marxism in 1989, and a new constitution the following year provided for multiparty elections and a free market economy. A UN-negotiated peace agreement between FRELIMO and rebel Mozambique National Resistance (RENAMO) forces ended the fighting in 1992. In December 2004, Mozambique underwent a delicate transition as Joaquim CHISSANO stepped down after 18 years in office. His elected successor, Armando Emilio GUEBUZA, promised to continue the sound economic policies that have encouraged foreign investment. Mozambique has seen very strong economic growth since the end of the civil war largely due to post-conflict reconstruction. 
				Namibia
			South Africa occupied the German colony of South-West Africa during World War I and administered it as a mandate until after World War II, when it annexed the territory. In 1966 the Marxist South-West Africa People's Organization (SWAPO) guerrilla group launched a war of independence for the area that became Namibia, but it was not until 1988 that South Africa agreed to end its administration in accordance with a UN peace plan for the entire region. Namibia has been governed by SWAPO since the country won independence in 1990. Hifikepunye POHAMBA was elected president in November 2004 in a landslide victory replacing Sam NUJOMA who led the country during its first 14 years of self rule. 
				Nauru
			The exact origins of the Nauruans are unclear, since their language does not resemble any other in the Pacific. The island was annexed by Germany in 1888 and its phosphate deposits began to be mined early in the 20th century by a German-British consortium. Nauru was occupied by Australian forces in World War I and subsequently became a League of Nations mandate. After the Second World War - and a brutal occupation by Japan - Nauru became a UN trust territory. It achieved its independence in 1968 and joined the UN in 1999 as the world's smallest independent republic. 
				Navassa Island
			This uninhabited island was claimed by the US in 1857 for its guano. Mining took place between 1865 and 1898. The lighthouse, built in 1917, was shut down in 1996 and administration of Navassa Island transferred from the Coast Guard to the Department of the Interior. A 1998 scientific expedition to the island described it as a unique preserve of Caribbean biodiversity; the following year it became a National Wildlife Refuge and annual scientific expeditions have continued. 
				Nepal
			In 1951, the Nepalese monarch ended the century-old system of rule by hereditary premiers and instituted a cabinet system of government. Reforms in 1990 established a multiparty democracy within the framework of a constitutional monarchy. An insurgency led by Maoist extremists broke out in 1996. The ensuing ten-year civil war between insurgents and government forces witnessed the dissolution of the cabinet and parliament and assumption of absolute power by the king. Several weeks of mass protests in April 2006 were followed by several months of peace negotiations between the Maoists and government officials, and culminated in a November 2006 peace accord and the promulgation of an interim constitution. Following a nation-wide election in April 2008, the newly formed Constituent Assembly declared Nepal a federal democratic republic and abolished the monarchy at its first meeting the following month. The Constituent Assembly elected the country's first president in July. The Maoists, who received a plurality of votes in the Constituent Assembly election, formed a coalition government in August 2008. 
				Netherlands
			The Dutch United Provinces declared their independence from Spain in 1579; during the 17th century, they became a leading seafaring and commercial power, with settlements and colonies around the world. After a 20-year French occupation, a Kingdom of the Netherlands was formed in 1815. In 1830 Belgium seceded and formed a separate kingdom. The Netherlands remained neutral in World War I, but suffered invasion and occupation by Germany in World War II. A modern, industrialized nation, the Netherlands is also a large exporter of agricultural products. The country was a founding member of NATO and the EEC (now the EU), and participated in the introduction of the euro in 1999. 
				Netherlands Antilles
			Once the center of the Caribbean slave trade, the island of Curacao was hard hit by the abolition of slavery in 1863. Its prosperity (and that of neighboring Aruba) was restored in the early 20th century with the construction of oil refineries to service the newly discovered Venezuelan oil fields. The island of Saint Martin is shared with France; its southern portion is named Sint Maarten and is part of the Netherlands Antilles; its northern portion, called Saint Martin, is an overseas collectivity of France. 
				New Caledonia
			Settled by both Britain and France during the first half of the 19th century, the island was made a French possession in 1853. It served as a penal colony for four decades after 1864. Agitation for independence during the 1980s and early 1990s ended in the 1998 Noumea Accord, which over a period of 15 to 20 years will transfer an increasing amount of governing responsibility from France to New Caledonia. The agreement also commits France to conduct as many as three referenda between 2013 and 2018, to decide whether New Caledonia should assume full sovereignty and independence. 
				New Zealand
			The Polynesian Maori reached New Zealand in about A.D. 800. In 1840, their chieftains entered into a compact with Britain, the Treaty of Waitangi, in which they ceded sovereignty to Queen Victoria while retaining territorial rights. In that same year, the British began the first organized colonial settlement. A series of land wars between 1843 and 1872 ended with the defeat of the native peoples. The British colony of New Zealand became an independent dominion in 1907 and supported the UK militarily in both World Wars. New Zealand's full participation in a number of defense alliances lapsed by the 1980s. In recent years, the government has sought to address longstanding Maori grievances. 
				Nicaragua
			The Pacific coast of Nicaragua was settled as a Spanish colony from Panama in the early 16th century. Independence from Spain was declared in 1821 and the country became an independent republic in 1838. Britain occupied the Caribbean Coast in the first half of the 19th century, but gradually ceded control of the region in subsequent decades. Violent opposition to governmental manipulation and corruption spread to all classes by 1978 and resulted in a short-lived civil war that brought the Marxist Sandinista guerrillas to power in 1979. Nicaraguan aid to leftist rebels in El Salvador caused the US to sponsor anti-Sandinista contra guerrillas through much of the 1980s. Free elections in 1990, 1996, and 2001, saw the Sandinistas defeated, but voting in 2006 announced the return of former Sandinista President Daniel ORTEGA Saavedra. Nicaragua's infrastructure and economy - hard hit by the earlier civil war and by Hurricane Mitch in 1998 - are slowly being rebuilt. 
				Niger
			Niger became independent from France in 1960 and experienced single-party and military rule until 1991, when Gen. Ali SAIBOU was forced by public pressure to allow multiparty elections, which resulted in a democratic government in 1993. Political infighting brought the government to a standstill and in 1996 led to a coup by Col. Ibrahim BARE. In 1999 BARE was killed in a coup by military officers who promptly restored democratic rule and held elections that brought Mamadou TANDJA to power in December of that year. TANDJA was reelected in 2004. Niger is one of the poorest countries in the world with minimal government services and insufficient funds to develop its resource base. The largely agrarian and subsistence-based economy is frequently disrupted by extended droughts common to the Sahel region of Africa. A predominately Tuareg ethnic group emerged in February 2007, the Nigerien Movement for Justice (MNJ), and attacked several military targets in Niger's northern region throughout 2007 and 2008. Events have since evolved into a fledging insurgency. 
				Nigeria
			British influence and control over what would become Nigeria and Africa's most populous country grew through the 19th century. A series of constitutions after World War II granted Nigeria greater autonomy; independence came in 1960. Following nearly 16 years of military rule, a new constitution was adopted in 1999, and a peaceful transition to civilian government was completed. The government continues to face the daunting task of reforming a petroleum-based economy, whose revenues have been squandered through corruption and mismanagement, and institutionalizing democracy. In addition, Nigeria continues to experience longstanding ethnic and religious tensions. Although both the 2003 and 2007 presidential elections were marred by significant irregularities and violence, Nigeria is currently experiencing its longest period of civilian rule since independence. The general elections of April 2007 marked the first civilian-to-civilian transfer of power in the country's history. 
				Niue
			Niue's remoteness, as well as cultural and linguistic differences between its Polynesian inhabitants and those of the rest of the Cook Islands, have caused it to be separately administered. The population of the island continues to drop (from a peak of 5,200 in 1966 to an estimated 1,444 in 2008), with substantial emigration to New Zealand, 2,400 km to the southwest. 
				Norfolk Island
			Two British attempts at establishing the island as a penal colony (1788-1814 and 1825-55) were ultimately abandoned. In 1856, the island was resettled by Pitcairn Islanders, descendants of the Bounty mutineers and their Tahitian companions. 
				Northern Mariana Islands
			Under US administration as part of the UN Trust Territory of the Pacific, the people of the Northern Mariana Islands decided in the 1970s not to seek independence but instead to forge closer links with the US. Negotiations for territorial status began in 1972. A covenant to establish a commonwealth in political union with the US was approved in 1975, and came into force on 24 March 1976. A new government and constitution went into effect in 1978. 
				Norway
			Two centuries of Viking raids into Europe tapered off following the adoption of Christianity by King Olav TRYGGVASON in 994. Conversion of the Norwegian kingdom occurred over the next several decades. In 1397, Norway was absorbed into a union with Denmark that lasted more than four centuries. In 1814, Norwegians resisted the cession of their country to Sweden and adopted a new constitution. Sweden then invaded Norway but agreed to let Norway keep its constitution in return for accepting the union under a Swedish king. Rising nationalism throughout the 19th century led to a 1905 referendum granting Norway independence. Although Norway remained neutral in World War I, it suffered heavy losses to its shipping. Norway proclaimed its neutrality at the outset of World War II, but was nonetheless occupied for five years by Nazi Germany (1940-45). In 1949, neutrality was abandoned and Norway became a member of NATO. Discovery of oil and gas in adjacent waters in the late 1960s boosted Norway's economic fortunes. The current focus is on containing spending on the extensive welfare system and planning for the time when petroleum reserves are depleted. In referenda held in 1972 and 1994, Norway rejected joining the EU. 
				Oman
			The inhabitants of the area of Oman have long prospered on Indian Ocean trade. In the late 18th century, a newly established sultanate in Muscat signed the first in a series of friendship treaties with Britain. Over time, Oman's dependence on British political and military advisors increased, but it never became a British colony. In 1970, QABOOS bin Said al-Said overthrew the restrictive rule of his father; he has ruled as sultan ever since. His extensive modernization program has opened the country to the outside world while preserving the longstanding close ties with the UK. Oman's moderate, independent foreign policy has sought to maintain good relations with all Middle Eastern countries. 
				Pacific Ocean
			The Pacific Ocean is the largest of the world's five oceans (followed by the Atlantic Ocean, Indian Ocean, Southern Ocean, and Arctic Ocean). Strategically important access waterways include the La Perouse, Tsugaru, Tsushima, Taiwan, Singapore, and Torres Straits. The decision by the International Hydrographic Organization in the spring of 2000 to delimit a fifth ocean, the Southern Ocean, removed the portion of the Pacific Ocean south of 60 degrees south. 
				Pakistan
			The Indus Valley civilization, one of the oldest in the world and dating back at least 5,000 years, spread over much of what is presently Pakistan. During the second millennium B.C., remnants of this culture fused with the migrating Indo-Aryan peoples. The area underwent successive invasions in subsequent centuries from the Persians, Greeks, Scythians, Arabs (who brought Islam), Afghans, and Turks. The Mughal Empire flourished in the 16th and 17th centuries; the British came to dominate the region in the 18th century. The separation in 1947 of British India into the Muslim state of Pakistan (with West and East sections) and largely Hindu India was never satisfactorily resolved, and India and Pakistan fought two wars - in 1947-48 and 1965 - over the disputed Kashmir territory. A third war between these countries in 1971 - in which India capitalized on Islamabad's marginalization of Bengalis in Pakistani politics - resulted in East Pakistan becoming the separate nation of Bangladesh. In response to Indian nuclear weapons testing, Pakistan conducted its own tests in 1998. The dispute over the state of Kashmir is ongoing, but discussions and confidence-building measures have led to decreased tensions since 2002. Mounting public dissatisfaction with President MUSHARRAF, coupled with the assassination of the prominent and popular political leader, Benazir BHUTTO, in late 2007, and MUSHARRAF's resignation in August 2008, led to the September presidential election of Asif ZARDARI, BHUTTO's widower. Pakistani government and military leaders are struggling to control Islamist militants, many of whom are located in the tribal areas adjacent to the border with Afghanistan. The November 2008 Mumbai attacks again inflamed Indo-Pakistan relations. The Pakistani Government is also faced with a deteriorating economy as foreign exchange reserves decline, the currency depreciates, and the current account deficit widens. 
				Palau
			After three decades as part of the UN Trust Territory of the Pacific under US administration, this westernmost cluster of the Caroline Islands opted for independence in 1978 rather than join the Federated States of Micronesia. A Compact of Free Association with the US was approved in 1986, but not ratified until 1993. It entered into force the following year, when the islands gained independence. 
				Panama
			Explored and settled by the Spanish in the 16th century, Panama broke with Spain in 1821 and joined a union of Colombia, Ecuador, and Venezuela - named the Republic of Gran Colombia. When the latter dissolved in 1830, Panama remained part of Colombia. With US backing, Panama seceded from Colombia in 1903 and promptly signed a treaty with the US allowing for the construction of a canal and US sovereignty over a strip of land on either side of the structure (the Panama Canal Zone). The Panama Canal was built by the US Army Corps of Engineers between 1904 and 1914. In 1977, an agreement was signed for the complete transfer of the Canal from the US to Panama by the end of the century. Certain portions of the Zone and increasing responsibility over the Canal were turned over in the subsequent decades. With US help, dictator Manuel NORIEGA was deposed in 1989. The entire Panama Canal, the area supporting the Canal, and remaining US military bases were transferred to Panama by the end of 1999. In October 2006, Panamanians approved an ambitious plan to expand the Canal. The project, which began in 2007 and could double the Canal's capacity, is expected to be completed in 2014-15. 
				Papua New Guinea
			The eastern half of the island of New Guinea - second largest in the world - was divided between Germany (north) and the UK (south) in 1885. The latter area was transferred to Australia in 1902, which occupied the northern portion during World War I and continued to administer the combined areas until independence in 1975. A nine-year secessionist revolt on the island of Bougainville ended in 1997 after claiming some 20,000 lives. 
				Paracel Islands
			The Paracel Islands are surrounded by productive fishing grounds and by potential oil and gas reserves. In 1932, French Indochina annexed the islands and set up a weather station on Pattle Island; maintenance was continued by its successor, Vietnam. China has occupied the Paracel Islands since 1974, when its troops seized a South Vietnamese garrison occupying the western islands. China built a military installation on Mischief Reef in 1999. The islands are claimed by Taiwan and Vietnam. 
				Paraguay
			In the disastrous War of the Triple Alliance (1865-70) - between Paraguay and Argentina, Brazil, and Uruguay - Paraguay lost two-thirds of all adult males and much of its territory. It stagnated economically for the next half century. In the Chaco War of 1932-35, Paraguay won large, economically important areas from Bolivia. The 35-year military dictatorship of Alfredo STROESSNER ended in 1989, and, despite a marked increase in political infighting in recent years, Paraguay has held relatively free and regular presidential elections since then. 
				Peru
			Ancient Peru was the seat of several prominent Andean civilizations, most notably that of the Incas whose empire was captured by the Spanish conquistadors in 1533. Peruvian independence was declared in 1821, and remaining Spanish forces defeated in 1824. After a dozen years of military rule, Peru returned to democratic leadership in 1980, but experienced economic problems and the growth of a violent insurgency. President Alberto FUJIMORI's election in 1990 ushered in a decade that saw a dramatic turnaround in the economy and significant progress in curtailing guerrilla activity. Nevertheless, the president's increasing reliance on authoritarian measures and an economic slump in the late 1990s generated mounting dissatisfaction with his regime, which led to his ouster in 2000. A caretaker government oversaw new elections in the spring of 2001, which ushered in Alejandro TOLEDO Manrique as the new head of government - Peru's first democratically elected president of Native American ethnicity. The presidential election of 2006 saw the return of Alan GARCIA Perez who, after a disappointing presidential term from 1985 to 1990, returned to the presidency with promises to improve social conditions and maintain fiscal responsibility. 
				Philippines
			The Philippine Islands became a Spanish colony during the 16th century; they were ceded to the US in 1898 following the Spanish-American War. In 1935 the Philippines became a self-governing commonwealth. Manuel QUEZON was elected president and was tasked with preparing the country for independence after a 10-year transition. In 1942 the islands fell under Japanese occupation during World War II, and US forces and Filipinos fought together during 1944-45 to regain control. On 4 July 1946 the Republic of the Philippines attained its independence. The 20-year rule of Ferdinand MARCOS ended in 1986, when a "people power" movement in Manila ("EDSA 1") forced him into exile and installed Corazon AQUINO as president. Her presidency was hampered by several coup attempts, which prevented a return to full political stability and economic development. Fidel RAMOS was elected president in 1992 and his administration was marked by greater stability and progress on economic reforms. In 1992, the US closed its last military bases on the islands. Joseph ESTRADA was elected president in 1998, but was succeeded by his vice-president, Gloria MACAPAGAL-ARROYO, in January 2001 after ESTRADA's stormy impeachment trial on corruption charges broke down and another "people power" movement ("EDSA 2") demanded his resignation. MACAPAGAL-ARROYO was elected to a six-year term as president in May 2004. The Philippine Government faces threats from three terrorist groups on the US Government's Foreign Terrorist Organization list, but in 2006 and 2007 scored some major successes in capturing or killing key wanted terrorists. Decades of Muslim insurgency in the southern Philippines have led to a peace accord with one group and on-again/off-again peace talks with another. 
				Pitcairn Islands
			Pitcairn Island was discovered in 1767 by the British and settled in 1790 by the Bounty mutineers and their Tahitian companions. Pitcairn was the first Pacific island to become a British colony (in 1838) and today remains the last vestige of that empire in the South Pacific. Outmigration, primarily to New Zealand, has thinned the population from a peak of 233 in 1937 to less than 50 today. 
				Poland
			Poland is an ancient nation that was conceived near the middle of the 10th century. Its golden age occurred in the 16th century. During the following century, the strengthening of the gentry and internal disorders weakened the nation. In a series of agreements between 1772 and 1795, Russia, Prussia, and Austria partitioned Poland amongst themselves. Poland regained its independence in 1918 only to be overrun by Germany and the Soviet Union in World War II. It became a Soviet satellite state following the war, but its government was comparatively tolerant and progressive. Labor turmoil in 1980 led to the formation of the independent trade union "Solidarity" that over time became a political force and by 1990 had swept parliamentary elections and the presidency. A "shock therapy" program during the early 1990s enabled the country to transform its economy into one of the most robust in Central Europe, but Poland still faces the lingering challenges of high unemployment, underdeveloped and dilapidated infrastructure, and a poor rural underclass. Solidarity suffered a major defeat in the 2001 parliamentary elections when it failed to elect a single deputy to the lower house of Parliament, and the new leaders of the Solidarity Trade Union subsequently pledged to reduce the Trade Union's political role. Poland joined NATO in 1999 and the European Union in 2004. With its transformation to a democratic, market-oriented country largely completed, Poland is an increasingly active member of Euro-Atlantic organizations. 
				Portugal
			Following its heyday as a global maritime power during the 15th and 16th centuries, Portugal lost much of its wealth and status with the destruction of Lisbon in a 1755 earthquake, occupation during the Napoleonic Wars, and the independence of its wealthiest colony of Brazil in 1822. A 1910 revolution deposed the monarchy; for most of the next six decades, repressive governments ran the country. In 1974, a left-wing military coup installed broad democratic reforms. The following year, Portugal granted independence to all of its African colonies. Portugal is a founding member of NATO and entered the EC (now the EU) in 1986. 
				Puerto Rico
			Populated for centuries by aboriginal peoples, the island was claimed by the Spanish Crown in 1493 following COLUMBUS' second voyage to the Americas. In 1898, after 400 years of colonial rule that saw the indigenous population nearly exterminated and African slave labor introduced, Puerto Rico was ceded to the US as a result of the Spanish-American War. Puerto Ricans were granted US citizenship in 1917. Popularly-elected governors have served since 1948. In 1952, a constitution was enacted providing for internal self government. In plebiscites held in 1967, 1993, and 1998, voters chose not to alter the existing political status. 
				Qatar
			Ruled by the al-Thani family since the mid-1800s, Qatar transformed itself from a poor British protectorate noted mainly for pearling into an independent state with significant oil and natural gas revenues. During the late 1980s and early 1990s, the Qatari economy was crippled by a continuous siphoning off of petroleum revenues by the Amir, who had ruled the country since 1972. His son, the current Amir HAMAD bin Khalifa al-Thani, overthrew him in a bloodless coup in 1995. In 2001, Qatar resolved its longstanding border disputes with both Bahrain and Saudi Arabia. As of 2007, oil and natural gas revenues had enabled Qatar to attain the highest per capita income in the world. 
				Romania
			The principalities of Wallachia and Moldavia - for centuries under the suzerainty of the Turkish Ottoman Empire - secured their autonomy in 1856; they united in 1859 and a few years later adopted the new name of Romania. The country gained recognition of its independence in 1878. It joined the Allied Powers in World War I and acquired new territories - most notably Transylvania - following the conflict. In 1940, Romania allied with the Axis powers and participated in the 1941 German invasion of the USSR. Three years later, overrun by the Soviets, Romania signed an armistice. The post-war Soviet occupation led to the formation of a Communist "people's republic" in 1947 and the abdication of the king. The decades-long rule of dictator Nicolae CEAUSESCU, who took power in 1965, and his Securitate police state became increasingly oppressive and draconian through the 1980s. CEAUSESCU was overthrown and executed in late 1989. Former Communists dominated the government until 1996 when they were swept from power. Romania joined NATO in 2004 and the EU in 2007. 
				Russia
			Founded in the 12th century, the Principality of Muscovy, was able to emerge from over 200 years of Mongol domination (13th-15th centuries) and to gradually conquer and absorb surrounding principalities. In the early 17th century, a new Romanov Dynasty continued this policy of expansion across Siberia to the Pacific. Under PETER I (ruled 1682-1725), hegemony was extended to the Baltic Sea and the country was renamed the Russian Empire. During the 19th century, more territorial acquisitions were made in Europe and Asia. Defeat in the Russo-Japanese War of 1904-05 contributed to the Revolution of 1905, which resulted in the formation of a parliament and other reforms. Repeated devastating defeats of the Russian army in World War I led to widespread rioting in the major cities of the Russian Empire and to the overthrow in 1917 of the imperial household. The Communists under Vladimir LENIN seized power soon after and formed the USSR. The brutal rule of Iosif STALIN (1928-53) strengthened Communist rule and Russian dominance of the Soviet Union at a cost of tens of millions of lives. The Soviet economy and society stagnated in the following decades until General Secretary Mikhail GORBACHEV (1985-91) introduced glasnost (openness) and perestroika (restructuring) in an attempt to modernize Communism, but his initiatives inadvertently released forces that by December 1991 splintered the USSR into Russia and 14 other independent republics. Since then, Russia has shifted its post-Soviet democratic ambitions in favor of a centralized semi-authoritarian state whose legitimacy is buttressed, in part, by carefully managed national elections, former President PUTIN's genuine popularity, and the prudent management of Russia's windfall energy wealth. Russia has severely disabled a Chechen rebel movement, although violence still occurs throughout the North Caucasus. 
				Rwanda
			In 1959, three years before independence from Belgium, the majority ethnic group, the Hutus, overthrew the ruling Tutsi king. Over the next several years, thousands of Tutsis were killed, and some 150,000 driven into exile in neighboring countries. The children of these exiles later formed a rebel group, the Rwandan Patriotic Front (RPF), and began a civil war in 1990. The war, along with several political and economic upheavals, exacerbated ethnic tensions, culminating in April 1994 in the genocide of roughly 800,000 Tutsis and moderate Hutus. The Tutsi rebels defeated the Hutu regime and ended the killing in July 1994, but approximately 2 million Hutu refugees - many fearing Tutsi retribution - fled to neighboring Burundi, Tanzania, Uganda, and Zaire. Since then, most of the refugees have returned to Rwanda, but several thousand remained in the neighboring Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC; the former Zaire) and formed an extremist insurgency bent on retaking Rwanda, much as the RPF tried in 1990. Despite substantial international assistance and political reforms - including Rwanda's first local elections in March 1999 and its first post-genocide presidential and legislative elections in August and September 2003 - the country continues to struggle to boost investment and agricultural output, and ethnic reconciliation is complicated by the real and perceived Tutsi political dominance. Kigali's increasing centralization and intolerance of dissent, the nagging Hutu extremist insurgency across the border, and Rwandan involvement in two wars in recent years in the neighboring DRC continue to hinder Rwanda's efforts to escape its bloody legacy. 
				Saint Barthelemy
			Discovered in 1493 by Christopher COLUMBUS who named it for his brother Bartolomeo, St. Barthelemy was first settled by the French in 1648. In 1784, the French sold the island to Sweden, who renamed the largest town Gustavia, after the Swedish King GUSTAV III, and made it a free port; the island prospered as a trade and supply center during the colonial wars of the 18th century. France repurchased the island in 1878 and placed it under the administration of Guadeloupe. St. Barthelemy retained its free port status along with various Swedish appelations such as Swedish street and town names, and the three-crown symbol on the coat of arms. In 2003, the populace of the island voted to secede from Guadeloupe and in 2007, the island became a French overseas collectivity. 
				Saint Helena
			Saint Helena is a British Overseas Territory consisting of Saint Helena and Ascension Islands, and the island group of Tristan da Cunha. 
				Saint Helena: Uninhabited when first discovered by the Portuguese in 1502, Saint Helena was garrisoned by the British during the 17th century. It acquired fame as the place of Napoleon BONAPARTE's exile, from 1815 until his death in 1821, but its importance as a port of call declined after the opening of the Suez Canal in 1869. During the Anglo-Boer War in South Africa, several thousand Boer prisoners were confined on the island between 1900 and 1903. 
				Ascension Island: This barren and uninhabited island was discovered and named by the Portuguese in 1503. The British garrisoned the island in 1815 to prevent a rescue of Napoleon from Saint Helena and it served as a provisioning station for the Royal Navy's West Africa Squadron on anti-slavery patrol. The island remained under Admiralty control until 1922, when it became a dependency of Saint Helena. During World War II, the UK permitted the US to construct an airfield on Ascension in support of trans-Atlantic flights to Africa and anti-submarine operations in the South Atlantic. In the 1960s the island became an important space tracking station for the US. In 1982, Ascension was an essential staging area for British forces during the Falklands War, and it remains a critical refueling point in the air-bridge from the UK to the South Atlantic. 
				Tristan da Cunha: The island group consists of the islands of Tristan da Cunha, Nightingale, Inaccessible, and Gough. Tristan da Cunha is named after its Portuguese discoverer (1506); it was garrisoned by the British in 1816 to prevent any attempt to rescue Napoleon from Saint Helena. Gough and Inaccessible Islands have been designated World Heritage Sites. South Africa leases a site for a meteorological station on Gough Island. 
				Saint Kitts and Nevis
			Carib Indians occupied the islands for hundreds of years before the British began settlement in 1623. The islands became an associated state of the UK with full internal autonomy in 1967. The island of Anguilla rebelled and was allowed to secede in 1971. Saint Kitts and Nevis achieved independence in 1983. In 1998, a vote in Nevis on a referendum to separate from Saint Kitts fell short of the two-thirds majority needed. Nevis continues in its efforts to try and separate from Saint Kitts. 
				Saint Lucia
			The island, with its fine natural harbor at Castries, was contested between England and France throughout the 17th and early 18th centuries (changing possession 14 times); it was finally ceded to the UK in 1814. Even after the abolition of slavery on its plantations in 1834, Saint Lucia remained an agricultural island, dedicated to producing tropical commodity crops. Self-government was granted in 1967 and independence in 1979. 
				Saint Martin
			Although sighted by Christopher COLUMBUS in 1493 and claimed for Spain, it was the Dutch who occupied the island in 1631 and set about exploiting its salt deposits. The Spanish retook the island in 1633, but continued to be harassed by the Dutch. The Spanish finally relinquished St. Martin to the French and Dutch, who divided it amongst themselves in 1648. The cultivation of sugar cane introduced slavery to the island in the late 18th century; the practice was not abolished until 1848. The island became a free port in 1939; the tourism industry was dramatically expanded during the 1970s and 1980s. In 2003, the populace of St. Martin voted to secede from Guadeloupe and in 2007, the northern portion of the island became a French overseas collectivity. 
				Saint Pierre and Miquelon
			First settled by the French in the early 17th century, the islands represent the sole remaining vestige of France's once vast North American possessions. 
				Saint Vincent and the Grenadines
			Resistance by native Caribs prevented colonization on St. Vincent until 1719. Disputed between France and the United Kingdom for most of the 18th century, the island was ceded to the latter in 1783. Between 1960 and 1962, Saint Vincent and the Grenadines was a separate administrative unit of the Federation of the West Indies. Autonomy was granted in 1969 and independence in 1979. 
				Samoa
			New Zealand occupied the German protectorate of Western Samoa at the outbreak of World War I in 1914. It continued to administer the islands as a mandate and then as a trust territory until 1962, when the islands became the first Polynesian nation to reestablish independence in the 20th century. The country dropped the "Western" from its name in 1997. 
				San Marino
			The third smallest state in Europe (after the Holy See and Monaco), San Marino also claims to be the world's oldest republic. According to tradition, it was founded by a Christian stonemason named Marinus in A.D. 301. San Marino's foreign policy is aligned with that of Italy; social and political trends in the republic also track closely with those of its larger neighbor. 
				Sao Tome and Principe
			Discovered and claimed by Portugal in the late 15th century, the islands' sugar-based economy gave way to coffee and cocoa in the 19th century - all grown with plantation slave labor, a form of which lingered into the 20th century. While independence was achieved in 1975, democratic reforms were not instituted until the late 1980s. The country held its first free elections in 1991, but frequent internal wrangling between the various political parties precipitated repeated changes in leadership and two failed coup attempts in 1995 and 2003. The recent discovery of oil in the Gulf of Guinea promises to attract increased attention to the small island nation. 
				Saudi Arabia
			Saudi Arabia is the birthplace of Islam and home to Islam's two holiest shrines in Mecca and Medina. The king's official title is the Custodian of the Two Holy Mosques. The modern Saudi state was founded in 1932 by ABD AL-AZIZ bin Abd al-Rahman AL SAUD (Ibn Saud) after a 30-year campaign to unify most of the Arabian Peninsula. A male descendent of Ibn Saud, his son ABDALLAH bin Abd al-Aziz, rules the country today as required by the country's 1992 Basic Law. Following Iraq's invasion of Kuwait in 1990, Saudi Arabia accepted the Kuwaiti royal family and 400,000 refugees while allowing Western and Arab troops to deploy on its soil for the liberation of Kuwait the following year. The continuing presence of foreign troops on Saudi soil after the liberation of Kuwait became a source of tension between the royal family and the public until all operational US troops left the country in 2003. Major terrorist attacks in May and November 2003 spurred a strong on-going campaign against domestic terrorism and extremism. King ABDALLAH has continued the cautious reform program begun when he was crown prince. To promote increased political participation, the government held elections nationwide from February through April 2005 for half the members of 179 municipal councils. In December 2005, King ABDALLAH completed the process by appointing the remaining members of the advisory municipal councils. The king instituted an Inter-Faith Dialogue initiative in 2008 to encourage religious tolerance on a global level; in February 2009, he reshuffled the cabinet, which led to more moderates holding ministerial and judicial positions, and appointed the first female to the cabinet. The country remains a leading producer of oil and natural gas and holds more than 20% of the world's proven oil reserves. The government continues to pursue economic reform and diversification, particularly since Saudi Arabia's accession to the WTO in December 2005, and promotes foreign investment in the kingdom. A burgeoning population, aquifer depletion, and an economy largely dependent on petroleum output and prices are all ongoing governmental concerns. 
				Senegal
			The French colonies of Senegal and the French Sudan were merged in 1959 and granted their independence as the Mali Federation in 1960. The union broke up after only a few months. Senegal joined with The Gambia to form the nominal confederation of Senegambia in 1982, but the envisaged integration of the two countries was never carried out, and the union was dissolved in 1989. The Movement of Democratic Forces in the Casamance (MFDC) has led a low-level separatist insurgency in southern Senegal since the 1980s, and several peace deals have failed to resolve the conflict. Nevertheless, Senegal remains one of the most stable democracies in Africa. Senegal was ruled by a Socialist Party for 40 years until current President Abdoulaye WADE was elected in 2000. He was reelected in February 2007, but complaints of fraud led opposition parties to boycott June 2007 legislative polls. Senegal has a long history of participating in international peacekeeping. 
				Serbia
			The Kingdom of Serbs, Croats, and Slovenes was formed in 1918; its name was changed to Yugoslavia in 1929. Various paramilitary bands resisted Nazi Germany's occupation and division of Yugoslavia from 1941 to 1945, but fought each other and ethnic opponents as much as the invaders. The military and political movement headed by Josip TITO (Partisans) took full control of Yugoslavia when German and Croatian separatist forces were defeated in 1945. Although Communist, TITO's new government and his successors (he died in 1980) managed to steer their own path between the Warsaw Pact nations and the West for the next four and a half decades. In 1989, Slobodan MILOSEVIC became president of the Serbian Republic and his ultranationalist calls for Serbian domination led to the violent breakup of Yugoslavia along ethnic lines. In 1991, Croatia, Slovenia, and Macedonia declared independence, followed by Bosnia in 1992. The remaining republics of Serbia and Montenegro declared a new Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (FRY) in April 1992 and under MILOSEVIC's leadership, Serbia led various military campaigns to unite ethnic Serbs in neighboring republics into a "Greater Serbia." These actions led to Yugoslavia being ousted from the UN in 1992, but Serbia continued its - ultimately unsuccessful - campaign until signing the Dayton Peace Accords in 1995. MILOSEVIC kept tight control over Serbia and eventually became president of the FRY in 1997. In 1998, an ethnic Albanian insurgency in the formerly autonomous Serbian province of Kosovo provoked a Serbian counterinsurgency campaign that resulted in massacres and massive expulsions of ethnic Albanians living in Kosovo. The MILOSEVIC government's rejection of a proposed international settlement led to NATO's bombing of Serbia in the spring of 1999 and to the eventual withdrawal of Serbian military and police forces from Kosovo in June 1999. UNSC Resolution 1244 in June 1999 authorized the stationing of a NATO-led force (KFOR) in Kosovo to provide a safe and secure environment for the region's ethnic communities, created a UN interim Administration Mission in Kosovo (UNMIK) to foster self-governing institutions, and reserved the issue of Kosovo's final status for an unspecified date in the future. In 2001, UNMIK promulgated a constitutional framework that allowed Kosovo to establish institutions of self-government and led to Kosovo's first parliamentary election. FRY elections in September 2000 led to the ouster of MILOSEVIC and installed Vojislav KOSTUNICA as president. A broad coalition of democratic reformist parties known as DOS (the Democratic Opposition of Serbia) was subsequently elected to parliament in December 2000 and took control of the government. DOS arrested MILOSEVIC in 2001 and allowed for him to be tried in The Hague for crimes against humanity. (MILOSEVIC died in March 2006 before the completion of his trial.) In 2001, the country's suspension from the UN was lifted. In 2003, the FRY became Serbia and Montenegro, a loose federation of the two republics with a federal level parliament. Widespread violence predominantly targeting ethnic Serbs in Kosovo in March 2004 caused the international community to open negotiations on the future status of Kosovo in January 2006. In May 2006, Montenegro invoked its right to secede from the federation and - following a successful referendum - it declared itself an independent nation on 3 June 2006. Two days later, Serbia declared that it was the successor state to the union of Serbia and Montenegro. A new Serbian constitution was approved in October 2006 and adopted the following month. After 15 months of inconclusive negotiations mediated by the UN and four months of further inconclusive negotiations mediated by the US, EU, and Russia, on 17 February 2008, the UNMIK-administered province of Kosovo declared itself independent of Serbia. 
				Seychelles
			A lengthy struggle between France and Great Britain for the islands ended in 1814, when they were ceded to the latter. Independence came in 1976. Socialist rule was brought to a close with a new constitution and free elections in 1993. President France-Albert RENE, who had served since 1977, was re-elected in 2001, but stepped down in 2004. Vice President James MICHEL took over the presidency and in July 2006 was elected to a new five-year term. 
				Sierra Leone
			Democracy is slowly being reestablished after the civil war from 1991 to 2002 that resulted in tens of thousands of deaths and the displacement of more than 2 million people (about one-third of the population). The military, which took over full responsibility for security following the departure of UN peacekeepers at the end of 2005, is increasingly developing as a guarantor of the country's stability. The armed forces remained on the sideline during the 2007 presidential election, but still look to the UN Integrated Office in Sierra Leone (UNIOSIL) - a civilian UN mission - to support efforts to consolidate peace. The new government's priorities include furthering development, creating jobs, and stamping out endemic corruption. 
				Singapore
			Singapore was founded as a British trading colony in 1819. It joined the Malaysian Federation in 1963 but separated two years later and became independent. Singapore subsequently became one of the world's most prosperous countries with strong international trading links (its port is one of the world's busiest in terms of tonnage handled) and with per capita GDP equal to that of the leading nations of Western Europe. 
				Slovakia
			The dissolution of the Austro-Hungarian Empire at the close of World War I allowed the Slovaks to join the closely related Czechs to form Czechoslovakia. Following the chaos of World War II, Czechoslovakia became a Communist nation within Soviet-dominated Eastern Europe. Soviet influence collapsed in 1989 and Czechoslovakia once more became free. The Slovaks and the Czechs agreed to separate peacefully on 1 January 1993. Slovakia joined both NATO and the EU in the spring of 2004 and the Eurozone on 1 January 2009. 
				Slovenia
			The Slovene lands were part of the Austro-Hungarian Empire until the latter's dissolution at the end of World War I. In 1918, the Slovenes joined the Serbs and Croats in forming a new multinational state, which was named Yugoslavia in 1929. After World War II, Slovenia became a republic of the renewed Yugoslavia, which though Communist, distanced itself from Moscow's rule. Dissatisfied with the exercise of power by the majority Serbs, the Slovenes succeeded in establishing their independence in 1991 after a short 10-day war. Historical ties to Western Europe, a strong economy, and a stable democracy have assisted in Slovenia's transformation to a modern state. Slovenia acceded to both NATO and the EU in the spring of 2004. 
				Solomon Islands
			The UK established a protectorate over the Solomon Islands in the 1890s. Some of the bitterest fighting of World War II occurred on this archipelago. Self-government was achieved in 1976 and independence two years later. Ethnic violence, government malfeasance, and endemic crime have undermined stability and civil society. In June 2003, then Prime Minister Sir Allan KEMAKEZA sought the assistance of Australia in reestablishing law and order; the following month, an Australian-led multinational force arrived to restore peace and disarm ethnic militias. The Regional Assistance Mission to the Solomon Islands (RAMSI) has generally been effective in restoring law and order and rebuilding government institutions. 
				Somalia
			Britain withdrew from British Somaliland in 1960 to allow its protectorate to join with Italian Somaliland and form the new nation of Somalia. In 1969, a coup headed by Mohamed SIAD Barre ushered in an authoritarian socialist rule that managed to impose a degree of stability in the country for a couple of decades. After the regime's collapse early in 1991, Somalia descended into turmoil, factional fighting, and anarchy. In May 1991, northern clans declared an independent Republic of Somaliland that now includes the administrative regions of Awdal, Woqooyi Galbeed, Togdheer, Sanaag, and Sool. Although not recognized by any government, this entity has maintained a stable existence and continues efforts to establish a constitutional democracy, including holding municipal, parliamentary, and presidential elections. The regions of Bari, Nugaal, and northern Mudug comprise a neighboring self-declared autonomous state of Puntland, which has been self-governing since 1998 but does not aim at independence; it has also made strides toward reconstructing a legitimate, representative government but has suffered some civil strife. Puntland disputes its border with Somaliland as it also claims portions of eastern Sool and Sanaag. Beginning in 1993, a two-year UN humanitarian effort (primarily in the south) was able to alleviate famine conditions, but when the UN withdrew in 1995, having suffered significant casualties, order still had not been restored. A two-year peace process, led by the Government of Kenya under the auspices of the Intergovernmental Authority on Development (IGAD), concluded in October 2004 with the election of Abdullahi YUSUF Ahmed as President of the Transitional Federal Government (TFG) of Somalia and the formation of an interim government, known as the Somalia Transitional Federal Institutions (TFIs). The Somalia TFIs include a 275-member parliamentary body, known as the Transitional Federal Assembly (TFA), a transitional Prime Minister, Nur "Adde" Hassan HUSSEIN, and a 90-member cabinet. The TFIs are based on the Transitional Federal Charter, which outlines a five-year mandate leading to the establishment of a new Somali constitution and a transition to a representative government following national elections. While its institutions remain weak, the TFG continues to reach out to Somali stakeholders and work with international donors to help build the governance capacity of the TFIs and work towards national elections in 2009. In June 2006, a loose coalition of clerics, business leaders, and Islamic court militias known as the Council of Islamic Courts (CIC) defeated powerful Mogadishu warlords and took control of the capital. The Courts continued to expand militarily throughout much of southern Somalia and threatened to overthrow the TFG in Baidoa. Ethiopian and TFG forces, concerned over links between some CIC factions and the al-Qaida East Africa network and the al-Qaida operatives responsible for the bombings of the US embassies in Tanzania and Kenya in 1998, intervened in late December 2006, resulting in the collapse of the CIC as an organization. However, the TFG continues to face violent resistance from extremist elements, such as the al-Shabaab militia previously affiliated with the now-defunct CIC. 
				South Africa
			Dutch traders landed at the southern tip of modern day South Africa in 1652 and established a stopover point on the spice route between the Netherlands and the East, founding the city of Cape Town. After the British seized the Cape of Good Hope area in 1806, many of the Dutch settlers (the Boers) trekked north to found their own republics. The discovery of diamonds (1867) and gold (1886) spurred wealth and immigration and intensified the subjugation of the native inhabitants. The Boers resisted British encroachments but were defeated in the Boer War (1899-1902); however, the British and the Afrikaners, as the Boers became known, ruled together under the Union of South Africa. In 1948, the National Party was voted into power and instituted a policy of apartheid - the separate development of the races. The first multi-racial elections in 1994 brought an end to apartheid and ushered in black majority rule under the African National Congress (ANC). ANC infighting, which has grown in recent years, came to a head in September 2008 after President Thabo MBEKI resigned. Kgalema MOTLANTHE, the party's General-Secretary, succeeded as interim president until general elections scheduled for 2009. 
				South Georgia and the South Sandwich Islands
			The islands, which have large bird and seal populations, lie approximately 1,000 km east of the Falkland Islands and have been under British administration since 1908 - except for a brief period in 1982 when Argentina occupied them. Grytviken, on South Georgia, was a 19th and early 20th century whaling station. Famed explorer Ernest SHACKLETON stopped there in 1914 en route to his ill-fated attempt to cross Antarctica on foot. He returned some 20 months later with a few companions in a small boat and arranged a successful rescue for the rest of his crew, stranded off the Antarctic Peninsula. He died in 1922 on a subsequent expedition and is buried in Grytviken. Today, the station houses scientists from the British Antarctic Survey. Recognizing the importance of preserving the marine stocks in adjacent waters, the UK, in 1993, extended the exclusive fishing zone from 12 nm to 200 nm around each island. 
				Southern Ocean
			A large body of recent oceanographic research has shown that the Antarctic Circumpolar Current (ACC), an ocean current that flows from west to east around Antarctica, plays a crucial role in global ocean circulation. The region where the cold waters of the ACC meet and mingle with the warmer waters of the north defines a distinct border - the Antarctic Convergence - which fluctuates with the seasons, but which encompasses a discrete body of water and a unique ecologic region. The Convergence concentrates nutrients, which promotes marine plant life, and which in turn allows for a greater abundance of animal life. In the spring of 2000, the International Hydrographic Organization decided to delimit the waters within the Convergence as a fifth world ocean - the Southern Ocean - by combining the southern portions of the Atlantic Ocean, Indian Ocean, and Pacific Ocean. The Southern Ocean extends from the coast of Antarctica north to 60 degrees south latitude, which coincides with the Antarctic Treaty Limit and which approximates the extent of the Antarctic Convergence. As such, the Southern Ocean is now the fourth largest of the world's five oceans (after the Pacific Ocean, Atlantic Ocean, and Indian Ocean, but larger than the Arctic Ocean). It should be noted that inclusion of the Southern Ocean does not imply recognition of this feature as one of the world's primary oceans by the US Government. 
				Spain
			Spain's powerful world empire of the 16th and 17th centuries ultimately yielded command of the seas to England. Subsequent failure to embrace the mercantile and industrial revolutions caused the country to fall behind Britain, France, and Germany in economic and political power. Spain remained neutral in World Wars I and II but suffered through a devastating civil war (1936-39). A peaceful transition to democracy following the death of dictator Francisco FRANCO in 1975, and rapid economic modernization (Spain joined the EU in 1986) gave Spain a dynamic and rapidly growing economy and made it a global champion of freedom and human rights. The government continues to battle the Basque Fatherland and Liberty (ETA) terrorist organization, but its major focus for the immediate future will be on measures to reverse the severe economic recession that started in mid-2008. 
				Spratly Islands
			The Spratly Islands consist of more than 100 small islands or reefs. They are surrounded by rich fishing grounds and potentially by gas and oil deposits. They are claimed in their entirety by China, Taiwan, and Vietnam, while portions are claimed by Malaysia and the Philippines. About 45 islands are occupied by relatively small numbers of military forces from China, Malaysia, the Philippines, Taiwan, and Vietnam. Brunei has established a fishing zone that overlaps a southern reef but has not made any formal claim. 
				Sri Lanka
			The first Sinhalese arrived in Sri Lanka late in the 6th century B.C. probably from northern India. Buddhism was introduced in about the mid-third century B.C., and a great civilization developed at the cities of Anuradhapura (kingdom from circa 200 B.C. to circa A.D. 1000) and Polonnaruwa (from about 1070 to 1200). In the 14th century, a south Indian dynasty established a Tamil kingdom in northern Sri Lanka. The coastal areas of the island were controlled by the Portuguese in the 16th century and by the Dutch in the 17th century. The island was ceded to the British in 1796, became a crown colony in 1802, and was united under British rule by 1815. As Ceylon, it became independent in 1948; its name was changed to Sri Lanka in 1972. Tensions between the Sinhalese majority and Tamil separatists erupted into war in 1983. Tens of thousands have died in the ethnic conflict that continues to fester. After two decades of fighting, the government and Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam (LTTE) formalized a cease-fire in February 2002 with Norway brokering peace negotiations. Violence between the LTTE and government forces intensified in 2006 and the government regained control of the Eastern Province in 2007. In January 2008, the government officially withdrew from the ceasefire, and by late January 2009, the LTTE remained in control of a small and shrinking area of Mullaitivu district in the North. 
				Sudan
			Military regimes favoring Islamic-oriented governments have dominated national politics since independence from the UK in 1956. Sudan was embroiled in two prolonged civil wars during most of the remainder of the 20th century. These conflicts were rooted in northern economic, political, and social domination of largely non-Muslim, non-Arab southern Sudanese. The first civil war ended in 1972 but broke out again in 1983. The second war and famine-related effects resulted in more than four million people displaced and, according to rebel estimates, more than two million deaths over a period of two decades. Peace talks gained momentum in 2002-04 with the signing of several accords. The final North/South Comprehensive Peace Agreement (CPA), signed in January 2005, granted the southern rebels autonomy for six years. After which, a referendum for independence is scheduled to be held. A separate conflict, which broke out in the western region of Darfur in 2003, has displaced nearly two million people and caused an estimated 200,000 to 400,000 deaths. The UN took command of the Darfur peacekeeping operation from the African Union on 31 December 2007. As of early 2009, peacekeeping troops were struggling to stabilize the situation, which has become increasingly regional in scope, and has brought instability to eastern Chad, and Sudanese incursions into the Central African Republic. Sudan also has faced large refugee influxes from neighboring countries, primarily Ethiopia and Chad. Armed conflict, poor transport infrastructure, and lack of government support have chronically obstructed the provision of humanitarian assistance to affected populations. 
				Suriname
			First explored by the Spaniards in the 16th century and then settled by the English in the mid-17th century, Suriname became a Dutch colony in 1667. With the abolition of slavery in 1863, workers were brought in from India and Java. Independence from the Netherlands was granted in 1975. Five years later the civilian government was replaced by a military regime that soon declared a socialist republic. It continued to exert control through a succession of nominally civilian administrations until 1987, when international pressure finally forced a democratic election. In 1990, the military overthrew the civilian leadership, but a democratically elected government - a four-party New Front coalition - returned to power in 1991 and has ruled since; the coalition expanded to eight parties in 2005. 
				Svalbard
			First discovered by the Norwegians in the 12th century, the islands served as an international whaling base during the 17th and 18th centuries. Norway's sovereignty was recognized in 1920; five years later it officially took over the territory. 
				Swaziland
			Autonomy for the Swazis of southern Africa was guaranteed by the British in the late 19th century; independence was granted in 1968. Student and labor unrest during the 1990s pressured King MSWATI III, the world's last absolute monarch, to grudgingly allow political reform and greater democracy, although he has backslid on these promises in recent years. A constitution came into effect in 2006, but political parties remain banned. The African United Democratic Party tried unsuccessfully to register as an official political party in mid 2006. Talks over the constitution broke down between the government and progressive groups in 2007. Swaziland recently surpassed Botswana as the country with the world's highest known HIV/AIDS prevalence rate. 
				Sweden
			A military power during the 17th century, Sweden has not participated in any war in almost two centuries. An armed neutrality was preserved in both World Wars. Sweden's long-successful economic formula of a capitalist system interlarded with substantial welfare elements was challenged in the 1990s by high unemployment and in 2000-02 by the global economic downturn, but fiscal discipline over the past several years has allowed the country to weather economic vagaries. Sweden joined the EU in 1995, but the public rejected the introduction of the euro in a 2003 referendum. 
				Switzerland
			The Swiss Confederation was founded in 1291 as a defensive alliance among three cantons. In succeeding years, other localities joined the original three. The Swiss Confederation secured its independence from the Holy Roman Empire in 1499. A constitution of 1848, subsequently modified in 1874, replaced the confederation with a centralized federal government. Switzerland's sovereignty and neutrality have long been honored by the major European powers, and the country was not involved in either of the two World Wars. The political and economic integration of Europe over the past half century, as well as Switzerland's role in many UN and international organizations, has strengthened Switzerland's ties with its neighbors. However, the country did not officially become a UN member until 2002. Switzerland remains active in many UN and international organizations but retains a strong commitment to neutrality. 
				Syria
			Following the breakup of the Ottoman Empire during World War I, France administered Syria until its independence in 1946. The country lacked political stability, however, and experienced a series of military coups during its first decades. Syria united with Egypt in February 1958 to form the United Arab Republic. In September 1961, the two entities separated, and the Syrian Arab Republic was reestablished. In November 1970, Hafiz al-ASAD, a member of the Socialist Ba'th Party and the minority Alawite sect, seized power in a bloodless coup and brought political stability to the country. In the 1967 Arab-Israeli War, Syria lost the Golan Heights to Israel. During the 1990s, Syria and Israel held occasional peace talks over its return. Following the death of President al-ASAD, his son, Bashar al-ASAD, was approved as president by popular referendum in July 2000. Syrian troops - stationed in Lebanon since 1976 in an ostensible peacekeeping role - were withdrawn in April 2005. During the July-August 2006 conflict between Israel and Hizballah, Syria placed its military forces on alert but did not intervene directly on behalf of its ally Hizballah. 
				Taiwan
			In 1895, military defeat forced China to cede Taiwan to Japan. Taiwan reverted to Chinese control after World War II. Following the Communist victory on the mainland in 1949, 2 million Nationalists fled to Taiwan and established a government using the 1946 constitution drawn up for all of China. Over the next five decades, the ruling authorities gradually democratized and incorporated the local population within the governing structure. In 2000, Taiwan underwent its first peaceful transfer of power from the Nationalist to the Democratic Progressive Party. Throughout this period, the island prospered and became one of East Asia's economic "Tigers." The dominant political issues continue to be the relationship between Taiwan and China - specifically the question of Taiwan's eventual status - as well as domestic political and economic reform. 
				Tajikistan
			The Tajik people came under Russian rule in the 1860s and 1870s, but Russia's hold on Central Asia weakened following the Revolution of 1917. Bolshevik control of the area was fiercely contested and not fully reestablished until 1925. Much of present-day Sughd province was transferred from the Uzbekistan SSR to newly formed Tajikistan SSR in 1929. Ethnic Uzbeks form a substantial minority in Sughd province. Tajikistan became independent in 1991 following the breakup of the Soviet Union, and it is now in the process of strengthening its democracy and transitioning to a free market economy after its 1992-97 civil war. There have been no major security incidents in recent years, although the country remains the poorest in the former Soviet sphere. Attention by the international community in the wake of the war in Afghanistan has brought increased economic development and security assistance, which could create jobs and increase stability in the long term. Tajikistan is in the early stages of seeking World Trade Organization membership and has joined NATO's Partnership for Peace. 
				Tanzania
			Shortly after achieving independence from Britain in the early 1960s, Tanganyika and Zanzibar merged to form the nation of Tanzania in 1964. One-party rule came to an end in 1995 with the first democratic elections held in the country since the 1970s. Zanzibar's semi-autonomous status and popular opposition have led to two contentious elections since 1995, which the ruling party won despite international observers' claims of voting irregularities. 
				Thailand
			A unified Thai kingdom was established in the mid-14th century. Known as Siam until 1939, Thailand is the only Southeast Asian country never to have been taken over by a European power. A bloodless revolution in 1932 led to a constitutional monarchy. In alliance with Japan during World War II, Thailand became a US treaty ally following the conflict. A military coup in September 2006 ousted then Prime Minister THAKSIN Chinnawat. The interim government held elections in December 2007 that saw the pro-THAKSIN People's Power Party (PPP) emerge at the head of a coalition government. The anti-THAKSIN People's Alliance for Democracy (PAD) in May 2008 began street demonstrations against the new government, eventually occupying the prime minister's office in August. Clashes in October 2008 between PAD protesters blocking parliament and police resulted in the death of at least two people. The PAD occupied Bangkok's international airports briefly, ending their protests in early December 2008 following a court ruling that dissolved the ruling PPP and two other coalition parties for election violations. The Democrat Party then formed a new coalition government with the support of some of THAKSIN's former political allies, and ABHISIT Wetchachiwa became prime minister. Since January 2004, thousands have been killed as separatists in Thailand's southern ethnic Malay-Muslim provinces increased the violence associated with their cause. 
				Timor-Leste
			The Portuguese began to trade with the island of Timor in the early 16th century and colonized it in mid-century. Skirmishing with the Dutch in the region eventually resulted in an 1859 treaty in which Portugal ceded the western portion of the island. Imperial Japan occupied Portuguese Timor from 1942 to 1945, but Portugal resumed colonial authority after the Japanese defeat in World War II. East Timor declared itself independent from Portugal on 28 November 1975 and was invaded and occupied by Indonesian forces nine days later. It was incorporated into Indonesia in July 1976 as the province of Timor Timur (East Timor). An unsuccessful campaign of pacification followed over the next two decades, during which an estimated 100,000 to 250,000 individuals lost their lives. On 30 August 1999, in a UN-supervised popular referendum, an overwhelming majority of the people of Timor-Leste voted for independence from Indonesia. Between the referendum and the arrival of a multinational peacekeeping force in late September 1999, anti-independence Timorese militias - organized and supported by the Indonesian military - commenced a large-scale, scorched-earth campaign of retribution. The militias killed approximately 1,400 Timorese and forcibly pushed 300,000 people into western Timor as refugees. The majority of the country's infrastructure, including homes, irrigation systems, water supply systems, and schools, and nearly 100% of the country's electrical grid were destroyed. On 20 September 1999 the Australian-led peacekeeping troops of the International Force for East Timor (INTERFET) deployed to the country and brought the violence to an end. On 20 May 2002, Timor-Leste was internationally recognized as an independent state. In late April 2006, internal tensions threatened the new nation's security when a military strike led to violence and a near breakdown of law and order in Dili. At the request of the Government of Timor-Leste, an Australian-led International Stabilization Force (ISF) deployed to Timor-Leste in late May. In August, the UN Security Council established the UN Integrated Mission in Timor-Leste (UNMIT), which included an authorized police presence of over 1,600 personnel. The ISF and UNMIT restored stability, allowing the Government of Timor-Leste to hold presidential and parliamentary elections in April and June 2007 in a largely peaceful atmosphere. In February 2008, a rebel group staged an unsuccessful attack against the president and prime minister. The ringleader was killed in the attack and the majority of the rebels surrendered to the government in April 2008. 
				Togo
			French Togoland became Togo in 1960. Gen. Gnassingbe EYADEMA, installed as military ruler in 1967, ruled Togo with a heavy hand for almost four decades. Despite the facade of multiparty elections instituted in the early 1990s, the government was largely dominated by President EYADEMA, whose Rally of the Togolese People (RPT) party has maintained power almost continually since 1967 and maintains a majority of seats in today's legislature. Upon EYADEMA's death in February 2005, the military installed the president's son, Faure GNASSINGBE, and then engineered his formal election two months later. Democratic gains since then allowed Togo to hold its first relatively free and fair legislative elections in October 2007. After years of political unrest and fire from international organizations for human rights abuses, Togo is finally being re-welcomed into the international community. 
				Tokelau
			Originally settled by Polynesian emigrants from surrounding island groups, the Tokelau Islands were made a British protectorate in 1889. They were transferred to New Zealand administration in 1925. Referenda held in 2006 and 2007 to change the status of the islands from that of a New Zealand territory to one of free association with New Zealand did not meet the needed threshold for approval. 
				Tonga
			Tonga - unique among Pacific nations - never completely lost its indigenous governance. The archipelagos of "The Friendly Islands" were united into a Polynesian kingdom in 1845. Tonga became a constitutional monarchy in 1875 and a British protectorate in 1900; it withdrew from the protectorate and joined the Commonwealth of Nations in 1970. Tonga remains the only monarchy in the Pacific. 
				Trinidad and Tobago
			First colonized by the Spanish, the islands came under British control in the early 19th century. The islands' sugar industry was hurt by the emancipation of the slaves in 1834. Manpower was replaced with the importation of contract laborers from India between 1845 and 1917, which boosted sugar production as well as the cocoa industry. The discovery of oil on Trinidad in 1910 added another important export. Independence was attained in 1962. The country is one of the most prosperous in the Caribbean thanks largely to petroleum and natural gas production and processing. Tourism, mostly in Tobago, is targeted for expansion and is growing. The government is coping with a rise in violent crime. 
				Tunisia
			Rivalry between French and Italian interests in Tunisia culminated in a French invasion in 1881 and the creation of a protectorate. Agitation for independence in the decades following World War I was finally successful in getting the French to recognize Tunisia as an independent state in 1956. The country's first president, Habib BOURGUIBA, established a strict one-party state. He dominated the country for 31 years, repressing Islamic fundamentalism and establishing rights for women unmatched by any other Arab nation. In November 1987, BOURGUIBA was removed from office and replaced by Zine el Abidine BEN ALI in a bloodless coup. BEN ALI is currently serving his fourth consecutive five-year term as president; the next elections are scheduled for October 2009. Tunisia has long taken a moderate, non-aligned stance in its foreign relations. Domestically, it has sought to defuse rising pressure for a more open political society. 
				Turkey
			Modern Turkey was founded in 1923 from the Anatolian remnants of the defeated Ottoman Empire by national hero Mustafa KEMAL, who was later honored with the title Ataturk or "Father of the Turks." Under his authoritarian leadership, the country adopted wide-ranging social, legal, and political reforms. After a period of one-party rule, an experiment with multi-party politics led to the 1950 election victory of the opposition Democratic Party and the peaceful transfer of power. Since then, Turkish political parties have multiplied, but democracy has been fractured by periods of instability and intermittent military coups (1960, 1971, 1980), which in each case eventually resulted in a return of political power to civilians. In 1997, the military again helped engineer the ouster - popularly dubbed a "post-modern coup" - of the then Islamic-oriented government. Turkey intervened militarily on Cyprus in 1974 to prevent a Greek takeover of the island and has since acted as patron state to the "Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus," which only Turkey recognizes. A separatist insurgency begun in 1984 by the Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) - now known as the People's Congress of Kurdistan or Kongra-Gel (KGK) - has dominated the Turkish military's attention and claimed more than 30,000 lives. After the capture of the group's leader in 1999, the insurgents largely withdrew from Turkey mainly to northern Iraq. In 2004, KGK announced an end to its ceasefire and attacks attributed to the KGK increased. Turkey joined the UN in 1945 and in 1952 it became a member of NATO; it holds a non-permanent seat on the UN Security Council from 2009-2010. In 1964, Turkey became an associate member of the European Community. Over the past decade, it has undertaken many reforms to strengthen its democracy and economy; it began accession membership talks with the European Union in 2005. 
				Turkmenistan
			Eastern Turkmenistan for centuries formed part of the Persian province of Khurasan; in medieval times Merv (today known as Mary) was one of the great cities of the Islamic world and an important stop on the Silk Road. Annexed by Russia between 1865 and 1885, Turkmenistan became a Soviet republic in 1924. It achieved independence upon the dissolution of the USSR in 1991. Extensive hydrocarbon/natural gas reserves could prove a boon to this underdeveloped country if extraction and delivery projects were to be expanded. The Turkmenistan Government is actively seeking to develop alternative petroleum transportation routes to break Russia's pipeline monopoly. President for Life Saparmurat NYYAZOW died in December 2006, and Turkmenistan held its first multi-candidate presidential electoral process in February 2007. Gurbanguly BERDIMUHAMEDOW, a vice premier under NYYAZOW, emerged as the country's new president. 
				Turks and Caicos Islands
			The islands were part of the UK's Jamaican colony until 1962, when they assumed the status of a separate crown colony upon Jamaica's independence. The governor of The Bahamas oversaw affairs from 1965 to 1973. With Bahamian independence, the islands received a separate governor in 1973. Although independence was agreed upon for 1982, the policy was reversed and the islands remain a British overseas territory. 
				Tuvalu
			In 1974, ethnic differences within the British colony of the Gilbert and Ellice Islands caused the Polynesians of the Ellice Islands to vote for separation from the Micronesians of the Gilbert Islands. The following year, the Ellice Islands became the separate British colony of Tuvalu. Independence was granted in 1978. In 2000, Tuvalu negotiated a contract leasing its Internet domain name ".tv" for $50 million in royalties over a 12-year period. 
				Uganda
			The colonial boundaries created by Britain to delimit Uganda grouped together a wide range of ethnic groups with different political systems and cultures. These differences prevented the establishment of a working political community after independence was achieved in 1962. The dictatorial regime of Idi AMIN (1971-79) was responsible for the deaths of some 300,000 opponents; guerrilla war and human rights abuses under Milton OBOTE (1980-85) claimed at least another 100,000 lives. The rule of Yoweri MUSEVENI since 1986 has brought relative stability and economic growth to Uganda. During the 1990s, the government promulgated non-party presidential and legislative elections. 
				Ukraine
			Ukraine was the center of the first eastern Slavic state, Kyivan Rus, which during the 10th and 11th centuries was the largest and most powerful state in Europe. Weakened by internecine quarrels and Mongol invasions, Kyivan Rus was incorporated into the Grand Duchy of Lithuania and eventually into the Polish-Lithuanian Commonwealth. The cultural and religious legacy of Kyivan Rus laid the foundation for Ukrainian nationalism through subsequent centuries. A new Ukrainian state, the Cossack Hetmanate, was established during the mid-17th century after an uprising against the Poles. Despite continuous Muscovite pressure, the Hetmanate managed to remain autonomous for well over 100 years. During the latter part of the 18th century, most Ukrainian ethnographic territory was absorbed by the Russian Empire. Following the collapse of czarist Russia in 1917, Ukraine was able to bring about a short-lived period of independence (1917-20), but was reconquered and forced to endure a brutal Soviet rule that engineered two artificial famines (1921-22 and 1932-33) in which over 8 million died. In World War II, German and Soviet armies were responsible for some 7 to 8 million more deaths. Although final independence for Ukraine was achieved in 1991 with the dissolution of the USSR, democracy remained elusive as the legacy of state control and endemic corruption stalled efforts at economic reform, privatization, and civil liberties. A peaceful mass protest "Orange Revolution" in the closing months of 2004 forced the authorities to overturn a rigged presidential election and to allow a new internationally monitored vote that swept into power a reformist slate under Viktor YUSHCHENKO. Subsequent internal squabbles in the YUSHCHENKO camp allowed his rival Viktor YANUKOVYCH to stage a comeback in parliamentary elections and become prime minister in August of 2006. An early legislative election, brought on by a political crisis in the spring of 2007, saw Yuliya TYMOSHENKO, as head of an "Orange" coalition, installed as a new prime minister in December 2007. 
				United Arab Emirates
			The Trucial States of the Persian Gulf coast granted the UK control of their defense and foreign affairs in 19th century treaties. In 1971, six of these states - Abu Zaby, 'Ajman, Al Fujayrah, Ash Shariqah, Dubayy, and Umm al Qaywayn - merged to form the United Arab Emirates (UAE). They were joined in 1972 by Ra's al Khaymah. The UAE's per capita GDP is on par with those of leading West European nations. Its generosity with oil revenues and its moderate foreign policy stance have allowed the UAE to play a vital role in the affairs of the region. 
				United Kingdom
			As the dominant industrial and maritime power of the 19th century, the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland played a leading role in developing parliamentary democracy and in advancing literature and science. At its zenith, the British Empire stretched over one-fourth of the earth's surface. The first half of the 20th century saw the UK's strength seriously depleted in two World Wars and the Irish republic withdraw from the union. The second half witnessed the dismantling of the Empire and the UK rebuilding itself into a modern and prosperous European nation. As one of five permanent members of the UN Security Council, a founding member of NATO, and of the Commonwealth, the UK pursues a global approach to foreign policy; it currently is weighing the degree of its integration with continental Europe. A member of the EU, it chose to remain outside the Economic and Monetary Union for the time being. Constitutional reform is also a significant issue in the UK. The Scottish Parliament, the National Assembly for Wales, and the Northern Ireland Assembly were established in 1999, but the latter was suspended until May 2007 due to wrangling over the peace process. 
				United States
			Britain's American colonies broke with the mother country in 1776 and were recognized as the new nation of the United States of America following the Treaty of Paris in 1783. During the 19th and 20th centuries, 37 new states were added to the original 13 as the nation expanded across the North American continent and acquired a number of overseas possessions. The two most traumatic experiences in the nation's history were the Civil War (1861-65), in which a northern Union of states defeated a secessionist Confederacy of 11 southern slave states, and the Great Depression of the 1930s, an economic downturn during which about a quarter of the labor force lost its jobs. Buoyed by victories in World Wars I and II and the end of the Cold War in 1991, the US remains the world's most powerful nation state. The economy is marked by steady growth, low unemployment and inflation, and rapid advances in technology. 
				United States Pacific Island Wildlife Refuges
			All of the following US Pacific island territories except Midway Atoll constitute the Pacific Remote Islands National Wildlife Refuge Complex and as such are managed by the Fish and Wildlife Service of the US Department of the Interior. Midway Atoll NWR has been included in a Refuge Complex with the Hawaiian Islands NWR and also designated as part of Papahanaumokuakea Marine National Monument. These remote refuges are the most widespread collection of marine- and terrestrial-life protected areas on the planet under a single country's jurisdiction. They sustain many endemic species including corals, fish, shellfish, marine mammals, seabirds, water birds, land birds, insects, and vegetation not found elsewhere. 
				Baker Island: The US took possession of the island in 1857, and its guano deposits were mined by US and British companies during the second half of the 19th century. In 1935, a short-lived attempt at colonization began on this island but was disrupted by World War II and thereafter abandoned. The island was established as a National Wildlife Refuge in 1974. 
				Howland Island: Discovered by the US early in the 19th century, the uninhabited atoll was officially claimed by the US in 1857. Both US and British companies mined for guano deposits until about 1890. In 1935, a short-lived attempt at colonization began on this island, similar to the effort on nearby Baker Island, but was disrupted by World War II and thereafter abandoned. The famed American aviatrix Amelia EARHART disappeared while seeking out Howland Island as a refueling stop during her 1937 round-the-world flight; Earhart Light, a day beacon near the middle of the west coast, was named in her memory. The island was established as a National Wildlife Refuge in 1974. 
				Jarvis Island: First discovered by the British in 1821, the uninhabited island was annexed by the US in 1858, but abandoned in 1879 after tons of guano had been removed. The UK annexed the island in 1889, but never carried out plans for further exploitation. The US occupied and reclaimed the island in 1935 until it was abandoned in 1942 during World War II. The island was established as a National Wildlife Refuge in 1974. 
				Johnston Atoll: Both the US and the Kingdom of Hawaii annexed Johnston Atoll in 1858, but it was the US that mined the guano deposits until the late 1880s. Johnston and Sand Islands were designated wildlife refuges in 1926. The US Navy took over the atoll in 1934, and subsequently the US Air Force assumed control in 1948. The site was used for high-altitude nuclear tests in the 1950s and 1960s, and until late in 2000 the atoll was maintained as a storage and disposal site for chemical weapons. Munitions destruction, cleanup, and closure of the facility was completed by May 2005. The Fish and Wildlife Service and the US Air Force are currently discussing future management options; in the interim, Johnston Atoll and the three-mile Naval Defensive Sea around it remain under the jurisdiction and administrative control of the US Air Force. 
				Kingman Reef: The US annexed the reef in 1922. Its sheltered lagoon served as a way station for flying boats on Hawaii-to-American Samoa flights during the late 1930s. There are no terrestrial plants on the reef, which is frequently awash, but it does support abundant and diverse marine fauna and flora. In 2001, the waters surrounding the reef out to 12 nm were designated a US National Wildlife Refuge. 
				Midway Islands: The US took formal possession of the islands in 1867. The laying of the trans-Pacific cable, which passed through the islands, brought the first residents in 1903. Between 1935 and 1947, Midway was used as a refueling stop for trans-Pacific flights. The US naval victory over a Japanese fleet off Midway in 1942 was one of the turning points of World War II. The islands continued to serve as a naval station until closed in 1993. Today the islands are a National Wildlife Refuge and are the site of the world's largest Laysan albatross colony. 
				Palmyra Atoll: The Kingdom of Hawaii claimed the atoll in 1862, and the US included it among the Hawaiian Islands when it annexed the archipelago in 1898. The Hawaii Statehood Act of 1959 did not include Palmyra Atoll, which is now partly privately owned by the Nature Conservancy with the rest owned by the Federal government and managed by the US Fish and Wildlife Service. These organizations are managing the atoll as a wildlife refuge. The lagoons and surrounding waters within the 12 nm US territorial seas were transferred to the US Fish and Wildlife Service and designated as a National Wildlife Refuge in January 2001. 
				Uruguay
			Montevideo, founded by the Spanish in 1726 as a military stronghold, soon took advantage of its natural harbor to become an important commercial center. Claimed by Argentina but annexed by Brazil in 1821, Uruguay declared its independence four years later and secured its freedom in 1828 after a three-year struggle. The administrations of President Jose BATLLE in the early 20th century established widespread political, social, and economic reforms that established a statist tradition. A violent Marxist urban guerrilla movement named the Tupamaros, launched in the late 1960s, led Uruguay's president to cede control of the government to the military in 1973. By yearend, the rebels had been crushed, but the military continued to expand its hold over the government. Civilian rule was not restored until 1985. In 2004, the left-of-center Frente Amplio Coalition won national elections that effectively ended 170 years of political control previously held by the Colorado and Blanco parties. Uruguay's political and labor conditions are among the freest on the continent. 
				Uzbekistan
			Russia conquered Uzbekistan in the late 19th century. Stiff resistance to the Red Army after World War I was eventually suppressed and a socialist republic set up in 1924. During the Soviet era, intensive production of "white gold" (cotton) and grain led to overuse of agrochemicals and the depletion of water supplies, which have left the land poisoned and the Aral Sea and certain rivers half dry. Independent since 1991, the country seeks to gradually lessen its dependence on agriculture while developing its mineral and petroleum reserves. Current concerns include terrorism by Islamic militants, economic stagnation, and the curtailment of human rights and democratization. 
				Vanuatu
			Multiple waves of colonizers, each speaking a distinct language, migrated to the New Hebrides in the millennia preceding European exploration in the 18th century. This settlement pattern accounts for the complex linguistic diversity found on the archipelago to this day. The British and French, who settled the New Hebrides in the 19th century, agreed in 1906 to an Anglo-French Condominium, which administered the islands until independence in 1980, when the new name of Vanuatu was adopted. 
				Venezuela
			Venezuela was one of three countries that emerged from the collapse of Gran Colombia in 1830 (the others being Ecuador and New Granada, which became Colombia). For most of the first half of the 20th century, Venezuela was ruled by generally benevolent military strongmen, who promoted the oil industry and allowed for some social reforms. Democratically elected governments have held sway since 1959. Hugo CHAVEZ, president since 1999, seeks to implement his "21st Century Socialism," which purports to alleviate social ills while at the same time attacking globalization and undermining regional stability. Current concerns include: a weakening of democratic institutions, political polarization, a politicized military, drug-related violence along the Colombian border, increasing internal drug consumption, overdependence on the petroleum industry with its price fluctuations, and irresponsible mining operations that are endangering the rain forest and indigenous peoples. 
				Vietnam
			The conquest of Vietnam by France began in 1858 and was completed by 1884. It became part of French Indochina in 1887. Vietnam declared independence after World War II, but France continued to rule until its 1954 defeat by Communist forces under Ho Chi MINH. Under the Geneva Accords of 1954, Vietnam was divided into the Communist North and anti-Communist South. US economic and military aid to South Vietnam grew through the 1960s in an attempt to bolster the government, but US armed forces were withdrawn following a cease-fire agreement in 1973. Two years later, North Vietnamese forces overran the South reuniting the country under Communist rule. Despite the return of peace, for over a decade the country experienced little economic growth because of conservative leadership policies, the persecution and mass exodus of individuals - many of them successful South Vietnamese merchants - and growing international isolation. However, since the enactment of Vietnam's "doi moi" (renovation) policy in 1986, Vietnamese authorities have committed to increased economic liberalization and enacted structural reforms needed to modernize the economy and to produce more competitive, export-driven industries. The country continues to experience small-scale protests from various groups, the vast majority connected to land-use issues and the lack of equitable mechanisms for resolving disputes. Various ethnic minorities, such as the Montagnards of the Central Highlands and the Khmer Krom in the southern delta region, have also held protests. 
				Virgin Islands
			During the 17th century, the archipelago was divided into two territorial units, one English and the other Danish. Sugarcane, produced by slave labor, drove the islands' economy during the 18th and early 19th centuries. In 1917, the US purchased the Danish portion, which had been in economic decline since the abolition of slavery in 1848. 
				Wake Island
			The US annexed Wake Island in 1899 for a cable station. An important air and naval base was constructed in 1940-41. In December 1941, the island was captured by the Japanese and held until the end of World War II. In subsequent years, Wake was developed as a stopover and refueling site for military and commercial aircraft transiting the Pacific. Since 1974, the island's airstrip has been used by the US military, as well as for emergency landings. All operations on the island were suspended and all personnel evacuated in August 2006 with the approach of super typhoon IOKE (category 5), which struck the island with sustained winds of 250 kph and a 6 m storm surge inflicting major damage. A US Air Force assessment and repair team returned to the island in September and restored limited function to the airfield and facilities. The future status of activities on the island will be determined upon completion of the survey and assessment. 
				Wallis and Futuna
			The Futuna island group was discovered by the Dutch in 1616 and Wallis by the British in 1767, but it was the French who declared a protectorate over the islands in 1842. In 1959, the inhabitants of the islands voted to become a French overseas territory. 
				West Bank
			The September 1993 Israel-PLO Declaration of Principles on Interim Self-Government Arrangements provided for a transitional period of Palestinian self-rule in the West Bank and Gaza Strip. Under a series of agreements signed between May 1994 and September 1999, Israel transferred to the Palestinian Authority (PA) security and civilian responsibility for Palestinian-populated areas of the West Bank and Gaza. Negotiations to determine the permanent status of the West Bank and Gaza stalled following the outbreak of an intifada in September 2000, as Israeli forces reoccupied most Palestinian-controlled areas. In April 2003, the Quartet (US, EU, UN, and Russia) presented a roadmap to a final settlement of the conflict by 2005 based on reciprocal steps by the two parties leading to two states, Israel and a democratic Palestine. The proposed date for a permanent status agreement was postponed indefinitely due to violence and accusations that both sides had not followed through on their commitments. Following Palestinian leader Yasir ARAFAT's death in late 2004, Mahmud ABBAS was elected PA president in January 2005. A month later, Israel and the PA agreed to the Sharm el-Sheikh Commitments in an effort to move the peace process forward. In September 2005, Israel unilaterally withdrew all its settlers and soldiers and dismantled its military facilities in the Gaza Strip and withdrew settlers and redeployed soldiers from four small northern West Bank settlements. Nonetheless, Israel controls maritime, airspace, and most access to the Gaza Strip. A November 2005 PA-Israeli agreement authorized the reopening of the Rafah border crossing between the Gaza Strip and Egypt under joint PA and Egyptian control. In January 2006, the Islamic Resistance Movement, HAMAS, won control of the Palestinian Legislative Council (PLC). The international community refused to accept the HAMAS-led government because it did not recognize Israel, would not renounce violence, and refused to honor previous peace agreements between Israel and the PA. HAMAS took control of the PA government in March 2006, but President ABBAS had little success negotiating with HAMAS to present a political platform acceptable to the international community so as to lift economic sanctions on Palestinians. The PLC was unable to convene throughout most of 2006 as a result of Israel's detention of many HAMAS PLC members and Israeli-imposed travel restrictions on other PLC members. Violent clashes took place between Fatah and HAMAS supporters in the Gaza Strip in 2006 and early 2007, resulting in numerous Palestinian deaths and injuries. ABBAS and HAMAS Political Bureau Chief MISHAL in February 2007 signed the Mecca Agreement in Saudi Arabia that resulted in the formation of a Palestinian National Unity Government (NUG) headed by HAMAS member Ismail HANIYA. However, fighting continued in the Gaza Strip, and in June, HAMAS militants succeeded in a violent takeover of all military and governmental institutions in the Gaza Strip. ABBAS dismissed the NUG and through a series of presidential decrees formed a PA government in the West Bank led by independent Salam FAYYAD. HAMAS rejected the NUG's dismissal and has called for resuming talks with Fatah, but ABBAS has ruled out negotiations until HAMAS agrees to a return of PA control over the Gaza Strip and recognizes the FAYYAD-led government. FAYYAD and his PA government initiated a series of security and economic reforms to improve conditions in the West Bank. ABBAS participated in talks with Israel's Prime Minister OLMERT and secured the release of some Palestinian prisoners and previously withheld customs revenue. During a November 2007 international meeting in Annapolis Maryland, ABBAS and OLMERT agreed to resume peace negotiations with the goal of reaching a final peace settlement.
				Western Sahara
			Morocco virtually annexed the northern two-thirds of Western Sahara (formerly Spanish Sahara) in 1976, and claimed the rest of the territory in 1979, following Mauritania's withdrawal. A guerrilla war with the Polisario Front contesting Rabat's sovereignty ended in a 1991 UN-brokered cease-fire; a UN-organized referendum on the territory's final status has been repeatedly postponed. In April 2007, Morocco presented an autonomy plan for the territory to the UN, which the U.S. considers serious and credible. The Polisario also presented a plan to the UN in 2007 that called for independence. Representatives from the Government of Morocco and the Polisario Front have met four times since June 2007 to negotiate the status of Western Sahara, but talks have stalled since the UN envoy to the territory stated in April 2008 that independence is unrealistic. 
				World
			Globally, the 20th century was marked by: (a) two devastating world wars; (b) the Great Depression of the 1930s; (c) the end of vast colonial empires; (d) rapid advances in science and technology, from the first airplane flight at Kitty Hawk, North Carolina (US) to the landing on the moon; (e) the Cold War between the Western alliance and the Warsaw Pact nations; (f) a sharp rise in living standards in North America, Europe, and Japan; (g) increased concerns about the environment, including loss of forests, shortages of energy and water, the decline in biological diversity, and air pollution; (h) the onset of the AIDS epidemic; and (i) the ultimate emergence of the US as the only world superpower. The planet's population continues to explode: from 1 billion in 1820, to 2 billion in 1930, 3 billion in 1960, 4 billion in 1974, 5 billion in 1988, and 6 billion in 2000. For the 21st century, the continued exponential growth in science and technology raises both hopes (e.g., advances in medicine) and fears (e.g., development of even more lethal weapons of war). 
				Yemen
			North Yemen became independent of the Ottoman Empire in 1918. The British, who had set up a protectorate area around the southern port of Aden in the 19th century, withdrew in 1967 from what became South Yemen. Three years later, the southern government adopted a Marxist orientation. The massive exodus of hundreds of thousands of Yemenis from the south to the north contributed to two decades of hostility between the states. The two countries were formally unified as the Republic of Yemen in 1990. A southern secessionist movement in 1994 was quickly subdued. In 2000, Saudi Arabia and Yemen agreed to a delimitation of their border. 
				Zambia
			The territory of Northern Rhodesia was administered by the [British] South Africa Company from 1891 until it was taken over by the UK in 1923. During the 1920s and 1930s, advances in mining spurred development and immigration. The name was changed to Zambia upon independence in 1964. In the 1980s and 1990s, declining copper prices and a prolonged drought hurt the economy. Elections in 1991 brought an end to one-party rule, but the subsequent vote in 1996 saw blatant harassment of opposition parties. The election in 2001 was marked by administrative problems with three parties filing a legal petition challenging the election of ruling party candidate Levy MWANAWASA. The new president launched an anticorruption investigation in 2002 to probe high-level corruption during the previous administration. In 2006-07, this task force successfully prosecuted four cases, including a landmark civil case in the UK in which former President CHILUBA and numerous others were found liable for USD 41 million. MWANAWASA was reelected in 2006 in an election that was deemed free and fair. Upon his abrupt death in August 2008, he was succeeded by his Vice-president Rupiah BANDA, who subsequently won a special presidential election in October 2008. 
				Zimbabwe
			The UK annexed Southern Rhodesia from the [British] South Africa Company in 1923. A 1961 constitution was formulated that favored whites in power. In 1965 the government unilaterally declared its independence, but the UK did not recognize the act and demanded more complete voting rights for the black African majority in the country (then called Rhodesia). UN sanctions and a guerrilla uprising finally led to free elections in 1979 and independence (as Zimbabwe) in 1980. Robert MUGABE, the nation's first prime minister, has been the country's only ruler (as president since 1987) and has dominated the country's political system since independence. His chaotic land redistribution campaign, which began in 2000, caused an exodus of white farmers, crippled the economy, and ushered in widespread shortages of basic commodities. Ignoring international condemnation, MUGABE rigged the 2002 presidential election to ensure his reelection. The ruling ZANU-PF party used fraud and intimidation to win a two-thirds majority in the March 2005 parliamentary election, allowing it to amend the constitution at will and recreate the Senate, which had been abolished in the late 1980s. In April 2005, Harare embarked on Operation Restore Order, ostensibly an urban rationalization program, which resulted in the destruction of the homes or businesses of 700,000 mostly poor supporters of the opposition. President MUGABE in June 2007 instituted price controls on all basic commodities causing panic buying and leaving store shelves empty for months. General elections held in March 2008 contained irregularities but still amounted to a censure of the ZANU-PF-led government with significant gains in opposition seats in parliament. MDC opposition leader Morgan TSVANGIRAI won the presidential polls, and may have won an out right majority, but official results posted by the Zimbabwe Electoral Committee did not reflect this. In the lead up to a run-off election in late June 2008, considerable violence enacted against opposition party members led to the withdrawal of TSVANGIRAI from the ballot. Extensive evidence of vote tampering and ballot-box stuffing resulted in international condemnation of the process. Difficult negotiations over a power sharing agreement, allowing MUGABE to remain as president and creating the new position of prime minister for TSVANGIRAI, were finally settled in February 2009.  		
				This page was last updated on 19 March 2009
&nbsp; 
CIA - The World Factbook -- Field Listing - Debt - external
&nbsp; 
				    &nbsp; 
                    Field Listing - Debt - external
         Home 
          &nbsp;Reference Maps 
          &nbsp;Appendixes 
          		&nbsp;Rank Order List
			Country
			Debt - external 	
				Afghanistan
			$8 billion in bilateral debt, mostly to Russia; Afghanistan has $500 million in debt to Multilateral Development Banks (2004) 
				Albania
			$1.55 billion (2004) 
				Algeria
			$2.913 billion (31 December 2008 est.) 
				American Samoa
			$NA 
				Andorra
			$NA 
				Angola
			$7.907 billion (31 December 2008 est.) 
				Anguilla
			$8.8 million (1998) 
				Antigua and Barbuda
			$359.8 million (June 2006) 
				Argentina
			$135.5 billion (31 December 2008 est.) 
				Armenia
			$1.372 billion (31 December 2007 est.) 
				Aruba
			$478.6 million (2005 est.) 
				Australia
			$1.032 trillion (31 December 2008 est.) 
				Austria
			$752.5 billion (30 June 2007) 
				Azerbaijan
			$2.733 billion (31 December 2008 est.) 
				Bahamas, The
			$342.6 million (2004 est.) 
				Bahrain
			$10.57 billion (31 December 2008 est.) 
				Bangladesh
			$21.72 billion (31 December 2008 est.) 
				Barbados
			$668 million (2003) 
				Belarus
			$9.127 billion (31 December 2008 est.) 
				Belgium
			$1.313 trillion (30 June 2007) 
				Belize
			$1.2 billion (June 2005 est.) 
				Benin
			$1.2 billion (2007) 
				Bermuda
			$160 million (FY99/00) 
				Bhutan
			$713.3 million (2006) 
				Bolivia
			$4.603 billion (31 December 2008 est.) 
				Bosnia and Herzegovina
			$8.353 billion (31 December 2008 est.) 
				Botswana
			$395 million (31 December 2008 est.) 
				Brazil
			$236.6 billion (31 December 2008 est.) 
				British Virgin Islands
			$36.1 million (1997) 
				Brunei
				Bulgaria
			$54.01 billion (30 November 2008) 
				Burkina Faso
			$1.33 billion (2007) 
				Burma
			$7.17 billion (31 December 2008 est.) 
				Burundi
			$1.2 billion (2003) 
				Cambodia
			$4.317 billion (31 December 2008 est.) 
				Cameroon
			$2.36 billion (31 December 2008 est.) 
				Canada
			$758.6 billion (30 June 2007) 
				Cape Verde
			$325 million (2002) 
				Cayman Islands
			$70 million (1996) 
				Central African Republic
			$1.153 billion (2007 est.) 
				Chad
			$1.6 billion (2005 est.) 
				Chile
			$64.57 billion (31 December 2008 est.) 
				China
			$420.8 billion (31 December 2008 est.) 
				Colombia
			$41.68 billion (31 December 2008 est.) 
				Comoros
			$232 million (2000 est.) 
				Congo, Democratic Republic of the
			$10 billion (2006 est.) 
				Congo, Republic of the
			$5 billion (2000 est.) 
				Cook Islands
			$141 million (1996 est.) 
				Costa Rica
			$7.401 billion (31 December 2008 est.) 
				Cote d'Ivoire
			$14.46 billion (31 December 2008 est.) 
				Croatia
			$53.3 billion (31 December 2008 est.) 
				Cuba
			$18.25 billion (convertible currency); another $15-20 billion owed to Russia (31 December 2008 est.) 
				Cyprus
			$28.84 billion (31 December 2008 est.) 
				Czech Republic
			$88.74 billion (31 December 2008 est.) 
				Denmark
			$492.6 billion (30 June 2007) 
				Djibouti
			$428 million (2006) 
				Dominica
			$213 million (2004) 
				Dominican Republic
			$11.7 billion (31 December 2008 est.) 
				Ecuador
			$16.96 billion (31 December 2008 est.) 
				Egypt
			$28.84 billion (31 December 2008 est.) 
				El Salvador
			$9.422 billion (31 November 2008 est.) 
				Equatorial Guinea
			$1.652 billion (31 December 2008 est.) 
				Eritrea
			$311 million (2000 est.) 
				Estonia
			$29.5 billion (31 December 2008 est.) 
				Ethiopia
			$3.158 billion (31 December 2008 est.) 
				Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas)
			$NA 
				Faroe Islands
			$64 million (1999) 
				Fiji
			$127 million (2004 est.) 
				Finland
			$271.2 billion (30 June 2007) 
				France
			$5.37 trillion (30 September 2008) 
				French Polynesia
			$NA 
				Gabon
			$3.173 billion (31 December 2008 est.) 
				Gambia, The
			$628.8 million (2003 est.) 
				Gaza Strip
				Georgia
			$4.5 billion (2007) 
				Germany
			$4.489 trillion (30 June 2007) 
				Ghana
			$5.697 billion (31 December 2008 est.) 
				Gibraltar
			$NA 
				Greece
			$92.19 billion (31 December 2008 est.) 
				Greenland
			$25 million (1999) 
				Grenada
			$347 million (2004) 
				Guam
			$NA 
				Guatemala
			$6.337 billion (31 December 2008 est.) 
				Guernsey
			$NA 
				Guinea
			$3.529 billion (31 December 2008 est.) 
				Guinea-Bissau
			$941.5 million (2000 est.) 
				Guyana
			$804.3 million (30 September 2008) 
				Haiti
			$1.463 billion (31 December 2008 est.) 
				Honduras
			$3.602 billion (31 December 2008 est.) 
				Hong Kong
			$78.84 billion (31 December 2008 est.) 
				Hungary
			$144.2 billion (31 December 2008 est.) 
				Iceland
			$3.073 billion (2002) 
				India
			$163.8 billion (31 December 2008 est.) 
				Indonesia
			$143.5 billion (31 December 2008 est.) 
				Iran
			$21.77 billion (31 December 2008 est.) 
				Iraq
			$40.4 billion (31 December 2008 est.) 
				Ireland
			$1.841 trillion (30 June 2007) 
				Isle of Man
			$NA 
				Israel
			$91.25 billion (31 December 2008 est.) 
				Italy
			$1.06 trillion (31 December 2008 est.) 
				Jamaica
			$10.38 billion (31 December 2008 est.) 
				Japan
			$1.492 trillion (30 June 2007) 
				Jersey
			$NA 
				Jordan
			$6.597 billion (31 December 2008 est.) 
				Kazakhstan
			$103.6 billion (31 December 2008 est.) 
				Kenya
			$6.749 billion (31 December 2008 est.) 
				Kiribati
			$10 million (1999 est.) 
				Korea, North
			$12.5 billion (2001 est.) 
				Korea, South
			$380.5 billion (31 December 2008) 
				Kosovo
			NA 
				Kuwait
			$38.82 billion (31 December 2008 est.) 
				Kyrgyzstan
			$2.966 billion (30 June 2007) 
				Laos
			$3.179 billion (2006) 
				Latvia
			$43.9 billion (31 December 2008 est.) 
				Lebanon
			$21.2 billion (31 December 2008) 
				Lesotho
			$628 million (31 December 2008 est.) 
				Liberia
			$3.2 billion (2005 est.) 
				Libya
			$5.521 billion (31 December 2008 est.) 
				Liechtenstein
				Lithuania
			$35.46 billion (31 December 2008 est.) 
				Luxembourg
			$NA 
				Macau
				Macedonia
			$4.624 billion (31 December 2008 est.) 
				Madagascar
			$4.6 billion (2002) 
				Malawi
			$974 million (31 December 2008 est.) 
				Malaysia
			$54.11 billion (31 December 2008 est.) 
				Maldives
			$482 million (2006 est.) 
				Mali
			$2.8 billion (2002) 
				Malta
			$188.8 million (2005) 
				Marshall Islands
			$87 million (2008 est.) 
				Mauritania
			NA 
				Mauritius
			$2.55 billion (31 December 2008 est.) 
				Mayotte
			$NA 
				Mexico
			$181.2 billion (31 December 2008 est.) 
				Micronesia, Federated States of
			$60.8 million (FY05 est.) 
				Moldova
			$4.092 billion (31 December 2008 est.) 
				Monaco
			$18 billion (2000 est.) 
				Mongolia
			$1.438 billion (2007) 
				Montenegro
			$650 million (2006) 
				Montserrat
			$8.9 million (1997) 
				Morocco
			$21.11 billion (31 December 2008 est.) 
				Mozambique
			$4.316 billion (31 December 2008 est.) 
				Namibia
			$1.151 billion (31 December 2008 est.) 
				Nauru
			$33.3 million (2002) 
				Nepal
			$3.07 billion (March 2006) 
				Netherlands
			$2.277 trillion (30 June 2007) 
				Netherlands Antilles
			$2.68 billion (2004) 
				New Caledonia
			$79 million (1998 est.) 
				New Zealand
			$59.08 billion (31 December 2008 est.) 
				Nicaragua
			$3.214 billion (31 December 2008 est.) 
				Niger
			$2.1 billion (2003 est.) 
				Nigeria
			$9.132 billion (31 December 2008 est.) 
				Niue
			$418,000 (2002 est.) 
				Norfolk Island
			$NA 
				Northern Mariana Islands
			$NA 
				Norway
			$469.1 billion; note - Norway is a net external creditor (30 June 2007) 
				Oman
			$6.12 billion (31 December 2008 est.) 
				Pakistan
			$43.23 billion (31 December 2008 est.) 
				Palau
			$0 (FY99/00) 
				Panama
			$10.89 billion (31 December 2008 est.) 
				Papua New Guinea
			$1.582 billion (31 December 2008 est.) 
				Paraguay
			$3.487 billion (31 December 2008 est.) 
				Peru
			$35.46 billion (31 December 2008 est.) 
				Philippines
			$53.48 billion (31 September 2008 est.) 
				Poland
			$227.5 billion (31 December 2008 est.) 
				Portugal
			$461.2 billion (31 December 2007) 
				Puerto Rico
			$NA 
				Qatar
			$48.91 billion (31 December 2008 est.) 
				Romania
			$92.76 billion (31 December 2008 est.) 
				Russia
			$527.1 billion (June 2008 est.) 
				Rwanda
			$1.4 billion (2004 est.) 
				Saint Helena
			$NA 
				Saint Kitts and Nevis
			$314 million (2004) 
				Saint Lucia
			$257 million (2004) 
				Saint Pierre and Miquelon
			$NA 
				Saint Vincent and the Grenadines
			$223 million (2004) 
				Samoa
			$177 million (2004) 
				San Marino
			$NA 
				Sao Tome and Principe
			$318 million (2002) 
				Saudi Arabia
			$63.2 billion (31 December 2008 est.) 
				Senegal
			$2.528 billion (31 December 2008 est.) 
				Serbia
			$26.24 billion (includes debt for Montenegro and Kosovo) (2007 est.) 
				Seychelles
			$1.161 billion (31 December 2008 est.) 
				Sierra Leone
			$1.61 billion (2003 est.) 
				Singapore
			$25.54 billion (31 December 2008 est.) 
				Slovakia
			$53.04 billion (30 September 2008 est.) 
				Slovenia
			$40.42 billion (30 June 2007) 
				Solomon Islands
			$166 million (2004) 
				Somalia
			$3 billion (2001 est.) 
				South Africa
			$39.69 billion (31 December 2008 est.) 
				Spain
			$2.478 trillion (30 September 2008 est.) 
				Sri Lanka
			$12.99 billion (31 December 2008 est.) 
				Sudan
			$30.48 billion (31 December 2008 est.) 
				Suriname
			$504.3 million (2005 est.) 
				Swaziland
			$548 million (31 December 2008 est.) 
				Sweden
			$598.2 billion (30 June 2006) 
				Switzerland
			$1.34 trillion (30 June 2007) 
				Syria
			$6.72 billion (31 December 2008 est.) 
				Taiwan
			$109.6 billion (31 December 2008) 
				Tajikistan
			$1.681 billion (31 December 2008 est.) 
				Tanzania
			$5.311 billion (31 December 2008 est.) 
				Thailand
			$64.8 billion (September 2008 est.) 
				Togo
			$2 billion (2005) 
				Tonga
			$80.7 million (2004) 
				Trinidad and Tobago
			$3.4 billion (31 December 2008 est.) 
				Tunisia
			$19.33 billion (31 December 2008 est.) 
				Turkey
			$294.3 billion (31 December 2008 est.) 
				Turkmenistan
			$1.4 billion to $5 billion (2004 est.) 
				Turks and Caicos Islands
			$NA 
				Tuvalu
			$NA 
				Uganda
			$1.705 billion (31 December 2008 est.) 
				Ukraine
			$82.07 billion (31 December 2008 est.) 
				United Arab Emirates
			$73.71 billion (31 December 2008 est.) 
				United Kingdom
			$10.45 trillion (30 June 2007) 
				United States
			$12.25 trillion (30 June 2007) 
				Uruguay
			$11.48 billion (31 December 2008 est.) 
				Uzbekistan
			$4.052 billion (31 December 2008 est.) 
				Vanuatu
			$81.2 million (2004) 
				Venezuela
			$47.99 billion (31 December 2008 est.) 
				Vietnam
			$23.72 billion (31 December 2008 est.) 
				Virgin Islands
			$NA 
				Wallis and Futuna
			$3.67 million (2004) 
				West Bank
				Western Sahara
			$NA 
				World
			$54.61 trillion 
				note: this figure is the sum total of all countries' external debt, both public and private (31 December 2008 est.) 
				Yemen
			$6.472 billion (31 December 2008 est.) 
				Zambia
			$2.913 billion (31 December 2008 est.) 
				Zimbabwe
			$5.255 billion (31 December 2008 est.)  		
				This page was last updated on 19 March 2009
&nbsp; 
CIA - The World Factbook -- Field Listing - Distribution of family income - Gini index
&nbsp; 
				    &nbsp; 
                    Field Listing - Distribution of family income - Gini index
         Home 
          &nbsp;Reference Maps 
          &nbsp;Appendixes 
			Country
			Distribution of family income - Gini index 	
				Albania
				Algeria
				Argentina
			49 (January-March 2007) 
				Armenia
				Australia
				Austria
				Azerbaijan
				Bangladesh
				Belarus
				Belgium
				Benin
				Bolivia
				Bosnia and Herzegovina
				Botswana
				Brazil
				Bulgaria
				Burkina Faso
				Burundi
				Cambodia
			43 (2007 est.) 
				Cameroon
				Canada
				Central African Republic
				Chile
				China
				Colombia
				Costa Rica
				Cote d'Ivoire
				Croatia
				Cyprus
				Czech Republic
				Denmark
				Dominican Republic
				Ecuador
				note: data are for urban households (2006) 
				Egypt
				El Salvador
				Estonia
				Ethiopia
				European Union
			31 (2005 est.) 
				Finland
				France
				Gambia, The
				Georgia
				Germany
				Ghana
				Greece
				Guatemala
				Guinea
				Guyana
				Haiti
				Honduras
				Hong Kong
				Hungary
				Iceland
				India
				Indonesia
				Iran
				Ireland
				Israel
				Italy
				Jamaica
				Japan
				Jordan
				Kazakhstan
				Kenya
				Korea, South
				Kosovo
			30 (FY05/06) 
				Kyrgyzstan
				Laos
				Latvia
				Lesotho
				Lithuania
				Luxembourg
				Macedonia
				Madagascar
				Malawi
				Malaysia
				Mali
				Malta
				Mauritania
				Mauritius
			39 (2006 est.) 
				Mexico
				Moldova
				Mongolia
				Montenegro
				Morocco
			40 (2005 est.) 
				Mozambique
				Namibia
				Nepal
				Netherlands
				New Zealand
				Nicaragua
				Niger
				Nigeria
				Norway
				Pakistan
			30.6 (FY07/08) 
				Panama
				Papua New Guinea
				Paraguay
				Peru
				Philippines
				Poland
				Portugal
				Romania
				Russia
			41.5 (September 2008) 
				Rwanda
				Senegal
				Serbia
				Sierra Leone
				Singapore
				Slovakia
				Slovenia
				South Africa
				Spain
				Sri Lanka
			49 (FY06/07) 
				Swaziland
				Sweden
				Switzerland
				Tajikistan
				Tanzania
				Thailand
				Timor-Leste
			38 (2002 est.) 
				Tunisia
			40 (2005 est.) 
				Turkey
				Turkmenistan
				Uganda
				Ukraine
				United Kingdom
				United States
				Uruguay
				Uzbekistan
				Venezuela
				Vietnam
				Yemen
				Zambia
				Zimbabwe
				This page was last updated on 19 March 2009
&nbsp; 
CIA - The World Factbook -- Field Listing - Life expectancy at birth
&nbsp; 
				    &nbsp; 
                    Field Listing - Life expectancy at birth
         Home 
          &nbsp;Reference Maps 
          &nbsp;Appendixes 
          		&nbsp;Rank Order List
			Country
			Life expectancy at birth (years) 
				Afghanistan
				total population: 44.64 years 
				male: 44.47 years 
				female: 44.81 years (2009 est.) 
				Albania
				total population: 77.96 years 
				male: 75.28 years 
				female: 80.89 years (2009 est.) 
				Algeria
				total population: 74.02 years 
				male: 72.35 years 
				female: 75.77 years (2009 est.) 
				American Samoa
				total population: 73.72 years 
				male: 70.8 years 
				female: 76.82 years (2009 est.) 
				Andorra
				total population: 82.51 years 
				male: 80.33 years 
				female: 84.84 years (2009 est.) 
				Angola
				total population: 38.2 years 
				male: 37.24 years 
				female: 39.22 years (2009 est.) 
				Anguilla
				total population: 80.65 years 
				male: 78.11 years 
				female: 83.26 years (2009 est.) 
				Antigua and Barbuda
				total population: 74.76 years 
				male: 72.81 years 
				female: 76.81 years (2009 est.) 
				Argentina
				total population: 76.56 years 
				male: 73.32 years 
				female: 79.97 years (2009 est.) 
				Armenia
				total population: 72.68 years 
				male: 69.06 years 
				female: 76.81 years (2009 est.) 
				Aruba
				total population: 75.28 years 
				male: 72.25 years 
				female: 78.38 years (2009 est.) 
				Australia
				total population: 81.63 years 
				male: 79.25 years 
				female: 84.14 years (2009 est.) 
				Austria
				total population: 79.5 years 
				male: 76.6 years 
				female: 82.56 years (2009 est.) 
				Azerbaijan
				total population: 66.66 years 
				male: 62.53 years 
				female: 71.34 years (2009 est.) 
				Bahamas, The
				total population: 65.78 years 
				male: 62.63 years 
				female: 68.98 years (2009 est.) 
				Bahrain
				total population: 75.16 years 
				male: 72.64 years 
				female: 77.76 years (2009 est.) 
				Bangladesh
				total population: 60.25 years 
				male: 57.57 years 
				female: 63.03 years (2009 est.) 
				Barbados
				total population: 73.94 years 
				male: 71.65 years 
				female: 76.26 years (2009 est.) 
				Belarus
				total population: 70.63 years 
				male: 64.95 years 
				female: 76.67 years (2009 est.) 
				Belgium
				total population: 79.22 years 
				male: 76.06 years 
				female: 82.53 years (2009 est.) 
				Belize
				total population: 68.2 years 
				male: 66.44 years 
				female: 70.05 years (2009 est.) 
				Benin
				total population: 59 years 
				male: 57.83 years 
				female: 60.23 years (2009 est.) 
				Bermuda
				total population: 80.43 years 
				male: 77.2 years 
				female: 83.72 years (2009 est.) 
				Bhutan
				total population: 66.13 years 
				male: 65.33 years 
				female: 66.97 years (2009 est.) 
				Bolivia
				total population: 66.89 years 
				male: 64.2 years 
				female: 69.72 years (2009 est.) 
				Bosnia and Herzegovina
				total population: 78.5 years 
				male: 74.92 years 
				female: 82.34 years (2009 est.) 
				Botswana
				total population: 61.85 years 
				male: 61.72 years 
				female: 61.99 years (2009 est.) 
				Brazil
				total population: 71.99 years 
				male: 68.43 years 
				female: 75.73 years (2009 est.) 
				British Virgin Islands
				total population: 77.26 years 
				male: 76.03 years 
				female: 78.55 years (2009 est.) 
				Brunei
				total population: 75.74 years 
				male: 73.52 years 
				female: 78.07 years (2009 est.) 
				Bulgaria
				total population: 73.09 years 
				male: 69.48 years 
				female: 76.91 years (2009 est.) 
				Burkina Faso
				total population: 52.95 years 
				male: 51.04 years 
				female: 54.91 years (2009 est.) 
				Burma
				total population: 63.39 years 
				male: 61.17 years 
				female: 65.74 years (2009 est.) 
				Burundi
				total population: 52.09 years 
				male: 51.2 years 
				female: 53.01 years (2009 est.) 
				Cambodia
				total population: 62.1 years 
				male: 60.03 years 
				female: 64.27 years (2009 est.) 
				Cameroon
				total population: 53.69 years 
				male: 52.89 years 
				female: 54.52 years (2009 est.) 
				Canada
				total population: 81.23 years 
				male: 78.69 years 
				female: 83.91 years (2009 est.) 
				Cape Verde
				total population: 71.61 years 
				male: 68.27 years 
				female: 75.05 years (2009 est.) 
				Cayman Islands
				total population: 80.44 years 
				male: 77.8 years 
				female: 83.14 years (2009 est.) 
				Central African Republic
				total population: 44.47 years 
				male: 44.4 years 
				female: 44.54 years (2009 est.) 
				Chad
				total population: 47.7 years 
				male: 46.67 years 
				female: 48.77 years (2009 est.) 
				Chile
				total population: 77.34 years 
				male: 74.07 years 
				female: 80.77 years (2009 est.) 
				China
				total population: 73.47 years 
				male: 71.61 years 
				female: 75.52 years (2009 est.) 
				Christmas Island
				total population: NA 
				male: NA 
				female: NA (2008 est.) 
				Cocos (Keeling) Islands
				total population: NA 
				male: NA 
				female: NA (2008 est.) 
				Colombia
				total population: 72.81 years 
				male: 68.98 years 
				female: 76.76 years (2009 est.) 
				Comoros
				total population: 63.47 years 
				male: 61.07 years 
				female: 65.94 years (2009 est.) 
				Congo, Democratic Republic of the
				total population: 54.36 years 
				male: 52.58 years 
				female: 56.2 years (2009 est.) 
				Congo, Republic of the
				total population: 54.15 years 
				male: 52.9 years 
				female: 55.43 years (2009 est.) 
				Cook Islands
				total population: 74.22 years 
				male: 71.46 years 
				female: 77.13 years (2009 est.) 
				Costa Rica
				total population: 77.58 years 
				male: 74.96 years 
				female: 80.34 years (2009 est.) 
				Cote d'Ivoire
				total population: 55.45 years 
				male: 54.64 years 
				female: 56.28 years (2009 est.) 
				Croatia
				total population: 75.35 years 
				male: 71.72 years 
				female: 79.18 years (2009 est.) 
				Cuba
				total population: 77.45 years 
				male: 75.19 years 
				female: 79.85 years (2009 est.) 
				Cyprus
				total population: 78.33 years 
				male: 75.91 years 
				female: 80.86 years (2009 est.) 
				Czech Republic
				total population: 76.81 years 
				male: 73.54 years 
				female: 80.28 years (2009 est.) 
				Denmark
				total population: 78.3 years 
				male: 75.96 years 
				female: 80.78 years (2009 est.) 
				Djibouti
				total population: 43.37 years 
				male: 41.89 years 
				female: 44.89 years (2009 est.) 
				Dominica
				total population: 75.55 years 
				male: 72.61 years 
				female: 78.64 years (2009 est.) 
				Dominican Republic
				total population: 73.7 years 
				male: 71.88 years 
				female: 75.6 years (2009 est.) 
				Ecuador
				total population: 75.3 years 
				male: 72.37 years 
				female: 78.37 years (2009 est.) 
				Egypt
				total population: 72.12 years 
				male: 69.56 years 
				female: 74.81 years (2009 est.) 
				El Salvador
				total population: 72.33 years 
				male: 68.72 years 
				female: 76.11 years (2009 est.) 
				Equatorial Guinea
				total population: 61.61 years 
				male: 60.71 years 
				female: 62.54 years (2009 est.) 
				Eritrea
				total population: 61.78 years 
				male: 59.71 years 
				female: 63.9 years (2009 est.) 
				Estonia
				total population: 72.82 years 
				male: 67.45 years 
				female: 78.53 years (2009 est.) 
				Ethiopia
				total population: 55.41 years 
				male: 52.92 years 
				female: 57.97 years (2009 est.) 
				European Union
				total population: 78.67 years 
				male: 75.54 years 
				female: 81.97 years (2008 est.) 
				Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas)
				total population: NA 
				male: NA 
				female: NA (2008 est.) 
				Faroe Islands
				total population: 79.44 years 
				male: 77 years 
				female: 82.05 years (2009 est.) 
				Fiji
				total population: 70.73 years 
				male: 68.18 years 
				female: 73.41 years (2009 est.) 
				Finland
				total population: 78.97 years 
				male: 75.48 years 
				female: 82.61 years (2009 est.) 
				France
				total population: 80.98 years 
				male: 77.79 years 
				female: 84.33 years (2009 est.) 
				French Polynesia
				total population: 76.71 years 
				male: 74.26 years 
				female: 79.29 years (2009 est.) 
				Gabon
				total population: 53.11 years 
				male: 52.19 years 
				female: 54.05 years (2009 est.) 
				Gambia, The
				total population: 55.35 years 
				male: 53.43 years 
				female: 57.34 years (2009 est.) 
				Gaza Strip
				total population: 73.42 years 
				male: 71.82 years 
				female: 75.12 years (2009 est.) 
				Georgia
				total population: 76.72 years 
				male: 73.41 years 
				female: 80.45 years (2009 est.) 
				Germany
				total population: 79.26 years 
				male: 76.26 years 
				female: 82.42 years (2009 est.) 
				Ghana
				total population: 59.85 years 
				male: 58.98 years 
				female: 60.75 years (2009 est.) 
				Gibraltar
				total population: 80.19 years 
				male: 77.3 years 
				female: 83.22 years (2009 est.) 
				Greece
				total population: 79.66 years 
				male: 77.11 years 
				female: 82.37 years (2009 est.) 
				Greenland
				total population: 70.07 years 
				male: 67.44 years 
				female: 72.85 years (2009 est.) 
				Grenada
				total population: 65.95 years 
				male: 64.06 years 
				female: 67.85 years (2009 est.) 
				Guam
				total population: 78.01 years 
				male: 74.97 years 
				female: 81.23 years (2009 est.) 
				Guatemala
				total population: 70.29 years 
				male: 68.49 years 
				female: 72.19 years (2009 est.) 
				Guernsey
				total population: 80.77 years 
				male: 77.76 years 
				female: 83.88 years (2009 est.) 
				Guinea
				total population: 57.09 years 
				male: 55.63 years 
				female: 58.6 years (2009 est.) 
				Guinea-Bissau
				total population: 47.9 years 
				male: 46.07 years 
				female: 49.79 years (2009 est.) 
				Guyana
				total population: 66.68 years 
				male: 64.09 years 
				female: 69.4 years (2009 est.) 
				Haiti
				total population: 60.78 years 
				male: 59.13 years 
				female: 62.48 years (2009 est.) 
				Honduras
				total population: 69.4 years 
				male: 67.86 years 
				female: 71.02 years (2009 est.) 
				Hong Kong
				total population: 81.86 years 
				male: 79.16 years 
				female: 84.79 years (2009 est.) 
				Hungary
				total population: 73.44 years 
				male: 69.27 years 
				female: 77.87 years (2009 est.) 
				Iceland
				total population: 80.67 years 
				male: 78.53 years 
				female: 82.9 years (2009 est.) 
				India
				total population: 69.89 years 
				male: 67.46 years 
				female: 72.61 years (2009 est.) 
				Indonesia
				total population: 70.76 years 
				male: 68.26 years 
				female: 73.38 years (2009 est.) 
				Iran
				total population: 71.14 years 
				male: 69.65 years 
				female: 72.72 years (2009 est.) 
				Iraq
				total population: 69.94 years 
				male: 68.6 years 
				female: 71.34 years (2009 est.) 
				Ireland
				total population: 78.24 years 
				male: 75.6 years 
				female: 81.06 years (2009 est.) 
				Isle of Man
				total population: 78.82 years 
				male: 75.86 years 
				female: 81.93 years (2009 est.) 
				Israel
				total population: 80.73 years 
				male: 78.62 years 
				female: 82.95 years (2009 est.) 
				Italy
				total population: 80.2 years 
				male: 77.26 years 
				female: 83.33 years (2009 est.) 
				Jamaica
				total population: 73.53 years 
				male: 71.83 years 
				female: 75.3 years (2009 est.) 
				Japan
				total population: 82.12 years 
				male: 78.8 years 
				female: 85.62 years (2009 est.) 
				Jersey
				total population: 79.75 years 
				male: 77.23 years 
				female: 82.46 years (2009 est.) 
				Jordan
				total population: 78.87 years 
				male: 76.34 years 
				female: 81.56 years (2009 est.) 
				Kazakhstan
				total population: 67.87 years 
				male: 62.58 years 
				female: 73.47 years (2009 est.) 
				Kenya
				total population: 57.86 years 
				male: 57.49 years 
				female: 58.24 years (2009 est.) 
				Kiribati
				total population: 63.22 years 
				male: 60.14 years 
				female: 66.45 years (2009 est.) 
				Korea, North
				total population: 63.81 years 
				male: 61.23 years 
				female: 66.53 years (2009 est.) 
				Korea, South
				total population: 78.72 years 
				male: 75.45 years 
				female: 82.22 years (2009 est.) 
				Kuwait
				total population: 77.71 years 
				male: 76.51 years 
				female: 78.95 years (2009 est.) 
				Kyrgyzstan
				total population: 69.43 years 
				male: 65.43 years 
				female: 73.64 years (2009 est.) 
				Laos
				total population: 56.68 years 
				male: 54.56 years 
				female: 58.9 years (2009 est.) 
				Latvia
				total population: 72.15 years 
				male: 66.98 years 
				female: 77.59 years (2009 est.) 
				Lebanon
				total population: 73.66 years 
				male: 71.15 years 
				female: 76.31 years (2009 est.) 
				Lesotho
				total population: 40.38 years 
				male: 41.18 years 
				female: 39.54 years (2009 est.) 
				Liberia
				total population: 41.84 years 
				male: 40.71 years 
				female: 43 years (2009 est.) 
				Libya
				total population: 77.26 years 
				male: 74.98 years 
				female: 79.65 years (2009 est.) 
				Liechtenstein
				total population: 80.06 years 
				male: 76.59 years 
				female: 83.53 years (2009 est.) 
				Lithuania
				total population: 74.9 years 
				male: 69.98 years 
				female: 80.1 years (2009 est.) 
				Luxembourg
				total population: 79.33 years 
				male: 76.07 years 
				female: 82.81 years (2009 est.) 
				Macau
				total population: 84.36 years 
				male: 81.39 years 
				female: 87.47 years (2009 est.) 
				Macedonia
				total population: 74.68 years 
				male: 72.18 years 
				female: 77.38 years (2009 est.) 
				Madagascar
				total population: 62.89 years 
				male: 60.93 years 
				female: 64.91 years (2009 est.) 
				Malawi
				total population: 43.82 years 
				male: 44.07 years 
				female: 43.57 years (2009 est.) 
				Malaysia
				total population: 73.29 years 
				male: 70.56 years 
				female: 76.21 years (2009 est.) 
				Maldives
				total population: 73.97 years 
				male: 71.78 years 
				female: 76.28 years (2009 est.) 
				Mali
				total population: 50.35 years 
				male: 48.38 years 
				female: 52.38 years (2009 est.) 
				Malta
				total population: 79.44 years 
				male: 77.21 years 
				female: 81.8 years (2009 est.) 
				Marshall Islands
				total population: 71.19 years 
				male: 69.15 years 
				female: 73.34 years (2009 est.) 
				Mauritania
				total population: 60.37 years 
				male: 58.22 years 
				female: 62.59 years (2009 est.) 
				Mauritius
				total population: 74 years 
				male: 70.53 years 
				female: 77.65 years (2009 est.) 
				Mayotte
				total population: 62.91 years 
				male: 60.65 years 
				female: 65.24 years (2009 est.) 
				Mexico
				total population: 76.06 years 
				male: 73.25 years 
				female: 79 years (2009 est.) 
				Micronesia, Federated States of
				total population: 70.94 years 
				male: 69.06 years 
				female: 72.93 years (2009 est.) 
				Moldova
				total population: 70.8 years 
				male: 67.1 years 
				female: 74.71 years (2009 est.) 
				Monaco
				total population: 80.09 years 
				male: 76.3 years 
				female: 84.09 years (2009 est.) 
				Mongolia
				total population: 67.65 years 
				male: 65.23 years 
				female: 70.19 years (2009 est.) 
				Montserrat
				total population: 72.76 years 
				male: 74.74 years 
				female: 70.68 years (2009 est.) 
				Morocco
				total population: 71.8 years 
				male: 69.42 years 
				female: 74.3 years (2009 est.) 
				Mozambique
				total population: 41.18 years 
				male: 41.83 years 
				female: 40.53 years (2009 est.) 
				Namibia
				total population: 51.24 years 
				male: 51.61 years 
				female: 50.86 years (2009 est.) 
				Nauru
				total population: 64.2 years 
				male: 60.58 years 
				female: 68.01 years (2009 est.) 
				Nepal
				total population: 65.46 years 
				male: 64.3 years 
				female: 66.67 years (2009 est.) 
				Netherlands
				total population: 79.4 years 
				male: 76.8 years 
				female: 82.14 years (2009 est.) 
				Netherlands Antilles
				total population: 76.65 years 
				male: 74.33 years 
				female: 79.09 years (2009 est.) 
				New Caledonia
				total population: 74.98 years 
				male: 71.99 years 
				female: 78.12 years (2009 est.) 
				New Zealand
				total population: 80.36 years 
				male: 78.43 years 
				female: 82.39 years (2009 est.) 
				Nicaragua
				total population: 71.5 years 
				male: 69.35 years 
				female: 73.75 years (2009 est.) 
				Niger
				total population: 52.6 years 
				male: 51.39 years 
				female: 53.85 years (2009 est.) 
				Nigeria
				total population: 46.94 years 
				male: 46.16 years 
				female: 47.76 years (2009 est.) 
				Niue
				total population: NA 
				male: NA 
				female: NA (2008 est.) 
				Norfolk Island
				total population: NA 
				male: NA 
				female: NA (2008 est.) 
				Northern Mariana Islands
				total population: 76.7 years 
				male: 74.08 years 
				female: 79.47 years (2009 est.) 
				Norway
				total population: 79.95 years 
				male: 77.29 years 
				female: 82.74 years (2009 est.) 
				Oman
				total population: 74.16 years 
				male: 71.87 years 
				female: 76.55 years (2009 est.) 
				Pakistan
				total population: 64.49 years 
				male: 63.4 years 
				female: 65.64 years (2009 est.) 
				Palau
				total population: 71.22 years 
				male: 68.08 years 
				female: 74.54 years (2009 est.) 
				Panama
				total population: 77.25 years 
				male: 74.47 years 
				female: 80.16 years (2009 est.) 
				Papua New Guinea
				total population: 66.34 years 
				male: 64.08 years 
				female: 68.72 years (2009 est.) 
				Paraguay
				total population: 75.77 years 
				male: 73.19 years 
				female: 78.49 years (2009 est.) 
				Peru
				total population: 70.74 years 
				male: 68.88 years 
				female: 72.69 years (2009 est.) 
				Philippines
				total population: 71.09 years 
				male: 68.17 years 
				female: 74.15 years (2009 est.) 
				Pitcairn Islands
				total population: NA 
				male: NA 
				female: NA (2008 est.) 
				Poland
				total population: 75.63 years 
				male: 71.65 years 
				female: 79.85 years (2009 est.) 
				Portugal
				total population: 78.21 years 
				male: 74.95 years 
				female: 81.69 years (2009 est.) 
				Puerto Rico
				total population: 78.53 years 
				male: 74.85 years 
				female: 82.39 years (2009 est.) 
				Qatar
				total population: 75.35 years 
				male: 73.66 years 
				female: 77.14 years (2009 est.) 
				Romania
				total population: 72.45 years 
				male: 68.95 years 
				female: 76.16 years (2009 est.) 
				Russia
				total population: 66.03 years 
				male: 59.33 years 
				female: 73.14 years (2009 est.) 
				Rwanda
				total population: 50.52 years 
				male: 49.25 years 
				female: 51.83 years (2009 est.) 
				Saint Helena
				total population: 78.44 years 
				male: 75.52 years 
				female: 81.5 years (2009 est.) 
				Saint Kitts and Nevis
				total population: 73.2 years 
				male: 70.33 years 
				female: 76.25 years (2009 est.) 
				Saint Lucia
				total population: 76.45 years 
				male: 73.78 years 
				female: 79.27 years (2009 est.) 
				Saint Pierre and Miquelon
				total population: 79.07 years 
				male: 76.69 years 
				female: 81.57 years (2009 est.) 
				Saint Vincent and the Grenadines
				total population: 73.65 years 
				male: 71.82 years 
				female: 75.54 years (2009 est.) 
				Samoa
				total population: 71.86 years 
				male: 69.03 years 
				female: 74.84 years (2009 est.) 
				San Marino
				total population: 81.97 years 
				male: 78.53 years 
				female: 85.72 years (2009 est.) 
				Sao Tome and Principe
				total population: 68.32 years 
				male: 66.65 years 
				female: 70.04 years (2009 est.) 
				Saudi Arabia
				total population: 76.3 years 
				male: 74.23 years 
				female: 78.48 years (2009 est.) 
				Senegal
				total population: 59 years 
				male: 57.12 years 
				female: 60.93 years (2009 est.) 
				Serbia
				total population: 75.29 years 
				male: 72.7 years 
				female: 78.09 years (2008 est.) 
				Seychelles
				total population: 73.02 years 
				male: 68.33 years 
				female: 77.85 years (2009 est.) 
				Sierra Leone
				total population: 41.24 years 
				male: 38.92 years 
				female: 43.64 years (2009 est.) 
				Singapore
				total population: 81.98 years 
				male: 79.37 years 
				female: 84.78 years (2009 est.) 
				Slovakia
				total population: 75.4 years 
				male: 71.47 years 
				female: 79.53 years (2009 est.) 
				Slovenia
				total population: 76.92 years 
				male: 73.25 years 
				female: 80.84 years (2009 est.) 
				Solomon Islands
				total population: 73.69 years 
				male: 71.14 years 
				female: 76.37 years (2009 est.) 
				Somalia
				total population: 49.63 years 
				male: 47.78 years 
				female: 51.53 years (2009 est.) 
				South Africa
				total population: 48.98 years 
				male: 49.81 years 
				female: 48.13 years (2009 est.) 
				Spain
				total population: 80.05 years 
				male: 76.74 years 
				female: 83.57 years (2009 est.) 
				Sri Lanka
				total population: 75.14 years 
				male: 73.08 years 
				female: 77.28 years (2009 est.) 
				Sudan
				total population: 51.42 years 
				male: 50.49 years 
				female: 52.4 years (2009 est.) 
				Suriname
				total population: 73.73 years 
				male: 71 years 
				female: 76.65 years (2009 est.) 
				Svalbard
				total population: NA 
				male: NA 
				female: NA (2008 est.) 
				Swaziland
				total population: 31.88 years 
				male: 31.62 years 
				female: 32.15 years (2009 est.) 
				Sweden
				total population: 80.86 years 
				male: 78.59 years 
				female: 83.26 years (2009 est.) 
				Switzerland
				total population: 80.85 years 
				male: 78.03 years 
				female: 83.83 years (2009 est.) 
				Syria
				total population: 71.19 years 
				male: 69.8 years 
				female: 72.68 years (2009 est.) 
				Taiwan
				total population: 77.96 years 
				male: 75.12 years 
				female: 81.05 years (2009 est.) 
				Tajikistan
				total population: 65.33 years 
				male: 62.29 years 
				female: 68.52 years (2009 est.) 
				Tanzania
				total population: 52.01 years 
				male: 50.56 years 
				female: 53.51 years (2009 est.) 
				Thailand
				total population: 73.1 years 
				male: 70.77 years 
				female: 75.55 years (2009 est.) 
				Timor-Leste
				total population: 67.27 years 
				male: 64.92 years 
				female: 69.75 years (2009 est.) 
				Togo
				total population: 58.69 years 
				male: 56.56 years 
				female: 60.88 years (2009 est.) 
				Tokelau
				total population: NA 
				male: NA 
				female: NA (2008 est.) 
				Tonga
				total population: 70.73 years 
				male: 68.18 years 
				female: 73.41 years (2009 est.) 
				Trinidad and Tobago
				total population: 70.86 years 
				male: 67.98 years 
				female: 73.82 years (2009 est.) 
				Tunisia
				total population: 75.78 years 
				male: 73.98 years 
				female: 77.7 years (2009 est.) 
				Turkey
				total population: 71.96 years 
				male: 70.12 years 
				female: 73.89 years (2009 est.) 
				Turkmenistan
				total population: 67.87 years 
				male: 64.94 years 
				female: 70.95 years (2009 est.) 
				Turks and Caicos Islands
				total population: 75.42 years 
				male: 73.12 years 
				female: 77.83 years (2009 est.) 
				Tuvalu
				total population: 69.29 years 
				male: 66.99 years 
				female: 71.7 years (2009 est.) 
				Uganda
				total population: 52.72 years 
				male: 51.66 years 
				female: 53.81 years (2009 est.) 
				Ukraine
				total population: 68.25 years 
				male: 62.37 years 
				female: 74.5 years (2009 est.) 
				United Arab Emirates
				total population: 76.11 years 
				male: 73.56 years 
				female: 78.78 years (2009 est.) 
				United Kingdom
				total population: 79.01 years 
				male: 76.52 years 
				female: 81.63 years (2009 est.) 
				United States
				total population: 78.11 years 
				male: 75.65 years 
				female: 80.69 years (2009 est.) 
				Uruguay
				total population: 76.35 years 
				male: 73.1 years 
				female: 79.72 years (2009 est.) 
				Uzbekistan
				total population: 71.96 years 
				male: 68.95 years 
				female: 75.15 years (2009 est.) 
				Vanuatu
				total population: 63.98 years 
				male: 62.37 years 
				female: 65.66 years (2009 est.) 
				Venezuela
				total population: 73.61 years 
				male: 70.54 years 
				female: 76.83 years (2009 est.) 
				Vietnam
				total population: 71.58 years 
				male: 68.78 years 
				female: 74.57 years (2009 est.) 
				Virgin Islands
				total population: 79.05 years 
				male: 76.02 years 
				female: 82.26 years (2009 est.) 
				Wallis and Futuna
				total population: 78.2 years 
				male: 75.22 years 
				female: 81.32 years (2009 est.) 
				West Bank
				total population: 74.54 years 
				male: 72.54 years 
				female: 76.65 years (2009 est.) 
				Western Sahara
				total population: 54.32 years 
				male: 52 years 
				female: 56.73 years (2009 est.) 
				World
				total population: 66.26 years 
				male: 64.3 years 
				female: 68.35 years (2008 est.) 
				Yemen
				total population: 63.27 years 
				male: 61.3 years 
				female: 65.33 years (2009 est.) 
				Zambia
				total population: 38.63 years 
				male: 38.53 years 
				female: 38.73 years (2009 est.) 
				Zimbabwe
				total population: 45.77 years 
				male: 46.36 years 
				female: 45.16 years (2009 est.)  		
				This page was last updated on 19 March 2009
&nbsp; 
CIA - The World Factbook -- Field Listing - Environment - international agreements
&nbsp; 
				    &nbsp; 
                    Field Listing - Environment - international agreements
         Home 
          &nbsp;Reference Maps 
          &nbsp;Appendixes 
			Country
			Environment - international agreements 	
				Afghanistan
				party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Desertification, Endangered Species, Environmental Modification, Marine Dumping, Ozone Layer Protection 
				signed, but not ratified: Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Marine Life Conservation 
				Albania
				party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Ozone Layer Protection, Wetlands 
				signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements 
				Algeria
				party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species, Environmental Modification, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution, Wetlands 
				signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements 
				Andorra
				party to: Biodiversity, Desertification, Hazardous Wastes 
				signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements 
				Angola
				party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification, Law of the Sea, Marine Dumping, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution 
				signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements 
				Antigua and Barbuda
				party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species, Environmental Modification, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Marine Dumping, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution, Wetlands, Whaling 
				signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements 
				Argentina
				party to: Antarctic-Environmental Protocol, Antarctic-Marine Living Resources, Antarctic Seals, Antarctic Treaty, Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species, Environmental Modification, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Marine Dumping, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution, Wetlands, Whaling 
				signed, but not ratified: Marine Life Conservation 
				Armenia
				party to: Air Pollution, Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Ozone Layer Protection, Wetlands 
				signed, but not ratified: Air Pollution-Persistent Organic Pollutants 
				Australia
				party to: Antarctic-Environmental Protocol, Antarctic-Marine Living Resources, Antarctic Seals, Antarctic Treaty, Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species, Environmental Modification, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Marine Dumping, Marine Life Conservation, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution, Tropical Timber 83, Tropical Timber 94, Wetlands, Whaling 
				signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements 
				Austria
				party to: Air Pollution, Air Pollution-Nitrogen Oxides, Air Pollution-Persistent Organic Pollutants, Air Pollution-Sulfur 85, Air Pollution-Sulphur 94, Air Pollution-Volatile Organic Compounds, Antarctic Treaty, Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species, Environmental Modification, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution, Tropical Timber 83, Tropical Timber 94, Wetlands, Whaling 
				signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements 
				Azerbaijan
				party to: Air Pollution, Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species, Hazardous Wastes, Marine Dumping, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution, Wetlands 
				signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements 
				Bahamas, The
				party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution, Wetlands 
				signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements 
				Bahrain
				party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Ozone Layer Protection, Wetlands 
				signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements 
				Bangladesh
				party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species, Environmental Modification, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution, Wetlands 
				signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements 
				Barbados
				party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Marine Dumping, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution, Wetlands 
				signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements 
				Belarus
				party to: Air Pollution, Air Pollution-Nitrogen Oxides, Air Pollution-Sulfur 85, Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species, Environmental Modification, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Marine Dumping, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution, Wetlands 
				signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements 
				Belgium
				party to: Air Pollution, Air Pollution-Nitrogen Oxides, Air Pollution-Persistent Organic Pollutants, Air Pollution-Sulfur 85, Air Pollution-Sulfur 94, Air Pollution-Volatile Organic Compounds, Antarctic-Environmental Protocol, Antarctic-Marine Living Resources, Antarctic Seals, Antarctic Treaty, Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species, Environmental Modification, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Marine Dumping, Marine Life Conservation, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution, Tropical Timber 83, Tropical Timber 94, Wetlands, Whaling 
				signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements 
				Belize
				party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution, Wetlands, Whaling 
				signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements 
				Benin
				party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species, Environmental Modification, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution, Wetlands, Whaling 
				signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements 
				Bhutan
				party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species, Hazardous Wastes 
				signed, but not ratified: Law of the Sea 
				Bolivia
				party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Marine Dumping, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution, Tropical Timber 83, Tropical Timber 94, Wetlands 
				signed, but not ratified: Environmental Modification, Marine Life Conservation 
				Bosnia and Herzegovina
				party to: Air Pollution, Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Marine Life Conservation, Ozone Layer Protection, Wetlands 
				signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements 
				Botswana
				party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Ozone Layer Protection, Wetlands 
				signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements 
				Brazil
				party to: Antarctic-Environmental Protocol, Antarctic-Marine Living Resources, Antarctic Seals, Antarctic Treaty, Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species, Environmental Modification, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Marine Dumping, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution, Tropical Timber 83, Tropical Timber 94, Wetlands, Whaling 
				signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements 
				Brunei
				party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Desertification, Endangered Species, Environmental Modification, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution 
				signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements 
				Bulgaria
				party to: Air Pollution, Air Pollution-Nitrogen Oxides, Air Pollution-Persistent Organic Pollutants, Air Pollution-Sulfur 85, Air Pollution-Sulfur 94, Air Pollution-Volatile Organic Compounds, Antarctic-Environmental Protocol, Antarctic-Marine Living Resources, Antarctic Treaty, Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species, Environmental Modification, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Marine Dumping, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution, Wetlands 
				signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements 
				Burkina Faso
				party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Marine Life Conservation, Ozone Layer Protection, Wetlands 
				signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements 
				Burma
				party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species, Law of the Sea, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution, Tropical Timber 83, Tropical Timber 94 
				signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements 
				Burundi
				party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species, Hazardous Wastes, Ozone Layer Protection, Wetlands 
				signed, but not ratified: Law of the Sea 
				Cambodia
				party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species, Hazardous Wastes, Marine Life Conservation, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution, Tropical Timber 94, Wetlands, Whaling 
				signed, but not ratified: Law of the Sea 
				Cameroon
				party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Ozone Layer Protection, Tropical Timber 83, Tropical Timber 94, Wetlands, Whaling 
				signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements 
				Canada
				party to: Air Pollution, Air Pollution-Nitrogen Oxides, Air Pollution-Persistent Organic Pollutants, Air Pollution-Sulfur 85, Air Pollution-Sulfur 94, Antarctic-Environmental Protocol, Antarctic-Marine Living Resources, Antarctic Seals, Antarctic Treaty, Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species, Environmental Modification, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Marine Dumping, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution, Tropical Timber 83, Tropical Timber 94, Wetlands 
				signed, but not ratified: Air Pollution-Volatile Organic Compounds, Marine Life Conservation 
				Cape Verde
				party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species, Environmental Modification, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Marine Dumping, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution, Wetlands 
				signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements 
				Central African Republic
				party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species, Hazardous Wastes, Ozone Layer Protection, Tropical Timber 94, Wetlands 
				signed, but not ratified: Law of the Sea 
				Chad
				party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Desertification, Endangered Species, Hazardous Wastes, Ozone Layer Protection, Wetlands 
				signed, but not ratified: Law of the Sea, Marine Dumping 
				Chile
				party to: Antarctic-Environmental Protocol, Antarctic-Marine Living Resources, Antarctic Seals, Antarctic Treaty, Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species, Environmental Modification, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Marine Dumping, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution, Wetlands, Whaling 
				signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements 
				China
				party to: Antarctic-Environmental Protocol, Antarctic Treaty, Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Marine Dumping, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution, Tropical Timber 83, Tropical Timber 94, Wetlands, Whaling 
				signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements 
				Colombia
				party to: Antarctic Treaty, Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species, Hazardous Wastes, Marine Life Conservation, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution, Tropical Timber 83, Tropical Timber 94, Wetlands 
				signed, but not ratified: Law of the Sea 
				Comoros
				party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution, Wetlands 
				signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements 
				Congo, Democratic Republic of the
				party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Marine Dumping, Ozone Layer Protection, Tropical Timber 83, Tropical Timber 94, Wetlands 
				signed, but not ratified: Environmental Modification 
				Congo, Republic of the
				party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution, Tropical Timber 83, Tropical Timber 94, Wetlands 
				signed, but not ratified: Law of the Sea 
				Cook Islands
				party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Ozone Layer Protection 
				signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements 
				Costa Rica
				party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species, Environmental Modification, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Marine Dumping, Ozone Layer Protection, Wetlands, Whaling 
				signed, but not ratified: Marine Life Conservation 
				Cote d'Ivoire
				party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Marine Dumping, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution, Tropical Timber 83, Tropical Timber 94, Wetlands, Whaling 
				signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements 
				Croatia
				party to: Air Pollution, Air Pollution-Sulfur 94, Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Marine Dumping, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution, Wetlands, Whaling 
				signed, but not ratified: Air Pollution-Persistent Organic Pollutants 
				Cuba
				party to: Antarctic Treaty, Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species, Environmental Modification, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Marine Dumping, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution, Wetlands 
				signed, but not ratified: Marine Life Conservation 
				Cyprus
				party to: Air Pollution, Air Pollution-Nitrogen Oxides, Air Pollution-Persistent Organic Pollutants, Air Pollution-Sulfur 94, Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species, Environmental Modification, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Marine Dumping, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution, Wetlands 
				signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements 
				Czech Republic
				party to: Air Pollution, Air Pollution-Nitrogen Oxides, Air Pollution-Persistent Organic Pollutants, Air Pollution-Sulfur 85, Air Pollution-Sulfur 94, Air Pollution-Volatile Organic Compounds, Antarctic-Environmental Protocol, Antarctic Treaty, Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species, Environmental Modification, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution, Wetlands, Whaling 
				signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements 
				Denmark
				party to: Air Pollution, Air Pollution-Nitrogen Oxides, Air Pollution-Persistent Organic Pollutants, Air Pollution-Sulfur 85, Air Pollution-Sulfur 94, Air Pollution-Volatile Organic Compounds, Antarctic Treaty, Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species, Environmental Modification, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Marine Dumping, Marine Life Conservation, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution, Tropical Timber 83, Tropical Timber 94, Wetlands, Whaling 
				signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements 
				Djibouti
				party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution, Wetlands 
				signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements 
				Dominica
				party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species, Environmental Modification, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution, Whaling 
				signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements 
				Dominican Republic
				party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species, Hazardous Wastes, Marine Dumping, Marine Life Conservation, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution, Wetlands 
				signed, but not ratified: Law of the Sea 
				Ecuador
				party to: Antarctic-Environmental Protocol, Antarctic Treaty, Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species, Hazardous Wastes, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution, Tropical Timber 83, Tropical Timber 94, Wetlands 
				signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements 
				Egypt
				party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species, Environmental Modification, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Marine Dumping, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution, Tropical Timber 83, Tropical Timber 94, Wetlands 
				signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements 
				El Salvador
				party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species, Hazardous Wastes, Ozone Layer Protection, Wetlands 
				signed, but not ratified: Law of the Sea 
				Equatorial Guinea
				party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Marine Dumping, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution, Wetlands 
				signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements 
				Eritrea
				party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species, Hazardous Wastes, Ozone Layer Protection 
				signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements 
				Estonia
				party to: Air Pollution, Air Pollution-Nitrogen Oxides, Air Pollution-Persistent Organic Pollutants, Air Pollution-Sulfur 85, Air Pollution-Volatile Organic Compounds, Antarctic Treaty, Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol, Endangered Species, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution, Wetlands 
				signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements 
				Ethiopia
				party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species, Hazardous Wastes, Ozone Layer Protection 
				signed, but not ratified: Environmental Modification, Law of the Sea 
				European Union
				party to: Air Pollution, Air Pollution-Nitrogen Oxides, Air Pollution-Persistent Organic Pollutants, Air Pollution-Sulphur 94, Antarctic-Marine Living Resources, Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Ozone Layer Protection, Tropical Timber 82, Tropical Timber 94 
				signed but not ratified: Air Pollution-Volatile Organic Compounds 
				Faroe Islands
				party to: Marine Dumping -associate member to the London Convention and Ship Pollution 
				Fiji
				party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species, Law of the Sea, Marine Life Conservation, Ozone Layer Protection, Tropical Timber 83, Tropical Timber 94, Wetlands 
				signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements 
				Finland
				party to: Air Pollution, Air Pollution-Nitrogen Oxides, Air Pollution-Persistent Organic Pollutants, Air Pollution-Sulfur 85, Air Pollution-Sulfur 94, Air Pollution-Volatile Organic Compounds, Antarctic-Environmental Protocol, Antarctic-Marine Living Resources, Antarctic Treaty, Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species, Environmental Modification, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Marine Dumping, Marine Life Conservation, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution, Tropical Timber 83, Tropical Timber 94, Wetlands, Whaling 
				signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements 
				France
				party to: Air Pollution, Air Pollution-Nitrogen Oxides, Air Pollution-Persistent Organic Pollutants, Air Pollution-Sulfur 85, Air Pollution-Sulfur 94, Air Pollution-Volatile Organic Compounds, Antarctic-Environmental Protocol, Antarctic-Marine Living Resources, Antarctic Seals, Antarctic Treaty, Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Marine Dumping, Marine Life Conservation, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution, Tropical Timber 83, Tropical Timber 94, Wetlands, Whaling 
				signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements 
				Gabon
				party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species, Law of the Sea, Marine Dumping, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution, Tropical Timber 83, Tropical Timber 94, Wetlands, Whaling 
				signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements 
				Gambia, The
				party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution, Wetlands, Whaling 
				signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements 
				Georgia
				party to: Air Pollution, Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution, Wetlands 
				signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements 
				Germany
				party to: Air Pollution, Air Pollution-Nitrogen Oxides, Air Pollution-Persistent Organic Pollutants, Air Pollution-Sulfur 85, Air Pollution-Sulfur 94, Air Pollution-Volatile Organic Compounds, Antarctic-Environmental Protocol, Antarctic-Marine Living Resources, Antarctic Seals, Antarctic Treaty, Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species, Environmental Modification, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Marine Dumping, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution, Tropical Timber 83, Tropical Timber 94, Wetlands, Whaling 
				signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements 
				Ghana
				party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species, Environmental Modification, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution, Tropical Timber 83, Tropical Timber 94, Wetlands 
				signed, but not ratified: Marine Life Conservation 
				Greece
				party to: Air Pollution, Air Pollution-Nitrogen Oxides, Air Pollution-Sulfur 94, Antarctic-Environmental Protocol, Antarctic-Marine Living Resources, Antarctic Treaty, Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species, Environmental Modification, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Marine Dumping, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution, Tropical Timber 83, Tropical Timber 94, Wetlands 
				signed, but not ratified: Air Pollution-Persistent Organic Pollutants, Air Pollution-Volatile Organic Compounds 
				Grenada
				party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species, Law of the Sea, Ozone Layer Protection, Whaling 
				signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements 
				Guatemala
				party to: Antarctic Treaty, Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species, Environmental Modification, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Marine Dumping, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution, Wetlands, Whaling 
				signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements 
				Guinea
				party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution, Wetlands, Whaling 
				signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements 
				Guinea-Bissau
				party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species, Law of the Sea, Ozone Layer Protection, Wetlands 
				signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements 
				Guyana
				party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution, Tropical Timber 83, Tropical Timber 94 
				signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements 
				Haiti
				party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification, Law of the Sea, Marine Dumping, Marine Life Conservation, Ozone Layer Protection 
				signed, but not ratified: Hazardous Wastes 
				Holy See (Vatican City)
				party to: Climate Change 
				signed, but not ratified: Air Pollution, Environmental Modification 
				Honduras
				party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Marine Dumping, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution, Tropical Timber 83, Tropical Timber 94, Wetlands 
				signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements 
				Hong Kong
				party to: Marine Dumping (associate member), Ship Pollution (associate member) 
				Hungary
				party to: Air Pollution, Air Pollution-Nitrogen Oxides, Air Pollution-Persistent Organic Pollutants, Air Pollution-Sulfur 85, Air Pollution-Sulfur 94, Air Pollution-Volatile Organic Compounds, Antarctic Treaty, Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species, Environmental Modification, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Marine Dumping, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution, Wetlands, Whaling 
				signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements 
				Iceland
				party to: Air Pollution, Air Pollution-Persistent Organic Pollutants, Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species, Hazardous Wastes, Kyoto Protocol, Law of the Sea, Marine Dumping, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution, Transboundary Air Pollution, Wetlands, Whaling 
				signed, but not ratified: Environmental Modification, Marine Life Conservation 
				India
				party to: Antarctic-Environmental Protocol, Antarctic-Marine Living Resources, Antarctic Treaty, Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species, Environmental Modification, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution, Tropical Timber 83, Tropical Timber 94, Wetlands, Whaling 
				signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements 
				Indonesia
				party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Marine Life Conservation, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution, Tropical Timber 83, Tropical Timber 94, Wetlands 
				signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements 
				Iran
				party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species, Hazardous Wastes, Marine Dumping, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution, Wetlands 
				signed, but not ratified: Environmental Modification, Law of the Sea, Marine Life Conservation 
				Iraq
				party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Law of the Sea 
				signed, but not ratified: Environmental Modification 
				Ireland
				party to: Air Pollution, Air Pollution-Nitrogen Oxides, Air Pollution-Sulfur 94, Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species, Environmental Modification, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Marine Dumping, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution, Tropical Timber 83, Tropical Timber 94, Wetlands, Whaling 
				signed, but not ratified: Air Pollution-Persistent Organic Pollutants, Marine Life Conservation 
				Israel
				party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species, Hazardous Wastes, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution, Wetlands, Whaling 
				signed, but not ratified: Marine Life Conservation 
				Italy
				party to: Air Pollution, Air Pollution-Nitrogen Oxides, Air Pollution-Persistent Organic Pollutants, Air Pollution-Sulfur 85, Air Pollution-Sulfur 94, Air Pollution-Volatile Organic Compounds, Antarctic-Environmental Protocol, Antarctic-Marine Living Resources, Antarctic Seals, Antarctic Treaty, Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species, Environmental Modification, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Marine Dumping, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution, Tropical Timber 83, Tropical Timber 94, Wetlands, Whaling 
				signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements 
				Jamaica
				party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Marine Dumping, Marine Life Conservation, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution, Wetlands 
				signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements 
				Japan
				party to: Antarctic-Environmental Protocol, Antarctic-Marine Living Resources, Antarctic Seals, Antarctic Treaty, Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species, Environmental Modification, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Marine Dumping, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution, Tropical Timber 83, Tropical Timber 94, Wetlands, Whaling 
				Jordan
				party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Marine Dumping, Ozone Layer Protection, Wetlands 
				signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements 
				Kazakhstan
				party to: Air Pollution, Biodiversity, Climate Change, Desertification, Endangered Species, Hazardous Wastes, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution, Wetlands 
				signed, but not ratified: Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol 
				Kenya
				party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Marine Dumping, Marine Life Conservation, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution, Wetlands, Whaling 
				signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements 
				Kiribati
				party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Marine Dumping, Ozone Layer Protection, Whaling 
				signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements 
				Korea, North
				party to: Antarctic Treaty, Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol, Environmental Modification, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution 
				signed, but not ratified: Law of the Sea 
				Korea, South
				party to: Antarctic-Environmental Protocol, Antarctic-Marine Living Resources, Antarctic Treaty, Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species, Environmental Modification, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Marine Dumping, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution, Tropical Timber 83, Tropical Timber 94, Wetlands, Whaling 
				signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements 
				Kuwait
				party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species, Environmental Modification, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Ozone Layer Protection 
				signed, but not ratified: Marine Dumping 
				Kyrgyzstan
				party to: Air Pollution, Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification, Hazardous Wastes, Ozone Layer Protection, Wetlands 
				signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements 
				Laos
				party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species, Environmental Modification, Law of the Sea, Ozone Layer Protection 
				signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements 
				Latvia
				party to: Air Pollution, Air Pollution-Persistent Organic Pollutants, Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol, Endangered Species, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution, Wetlands 
				signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements 
				Lebanon
				party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution, Wetlands 
				signed, but not ratified: Environmental Modification, Marine Life Conservation 
				Lesotho
				party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Marine Life Conservation, Ozone Layer Protection, Wetlands 
				signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements 
				Liberia
				party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species, Hazardous Wastes, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution, Tropical Timber 83, Tropical Timber 94, Wetlands 
				signed, but not ratified: Environmental Modification, Law of the Sea, Marine Life Conservation 
				Libya
				party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species, Hazardous Wastes, Marine Dumping, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution, Wetlands 
				signed, but not ratified: Law of the Sea 
				Liechtenstein
				party to: Air Pollution, Air Pollution-Nitrogen Oxides, Air Pollution-Persistent Organic Pollutants, Air Pollution-Sulfur 85, Air Pollution-Sulfur 94, Air Pollution-Volatile Organic Compounds, Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species, Hazardous Wastes, Ozone Layer Protection, Wetlands 
				signed, but not ratified: Law of the Sea 
				Lithuania
				party to: Air Pollution, Air Pollution-Nitrogen Oxides, Air Pollution-Persistent Organic Pollutants, Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol, Endangered Species, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution, Wetlands 
				signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements 
				Luxembourg
				party to: Air Pollution, Air Pollution-Nitrogen Oxides, Air Pollution-Persistent Organic Pollutants, Air Pollution-Sulfur 85, Air Pollution-Sulfur 94, Air Pollution-Volatile Organic Compounds, Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Marine Dumping, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution, Tropical Timber 83, Tropical Timber 94, Wetlands 
				signed, but not ratified: Environmental Modification 
				Macau
				party to: Marine Dumping (associate member), Ship Pollution (associate member) 
				Macedonia
				party to: Air Pollution, Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Ozone Layer Protection, Wetlands 
				signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements 
				Madagascar
				party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Marine Life Conservation, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution, Wetlands 
				signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements 
				Malawi
				party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species, Environmental Modification, Hazardous Wastes, Marine Life Conservation, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution, Wetlands 
				signed, but not ratified: Law of the Sea 
				Malaysia
				party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Marine Life Conservation, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution, Tropical Timber 83, Tropical Timber 94, Wetlands 
				Maldives
				party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution 
				signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements 
				Mali
				party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Ozone Layer Protection, Wetlands, Whaling 
				signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements 
				Malta
				party to: Air Pollution, Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Marine Dumping, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution, Wetlands 
				signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements 
				Marshall Islands
				party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution, Wetlands, Whaling 
				signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements 
				Mauritania
				party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution, Wetlands, Whaling 
				signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements 
				Mauritius
				party to: Antarctic-Marine Living Resources, Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species, Environmental Modification, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Marine Life Conservation, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution, Wetlands 
				signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements 
				Mexico
				party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Marine Dumping, Marine Life Conservation, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution, Wetlands, Whaling 
				signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements 
				Micronesia, Federated States of
				party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Ozone Layer Protection 
				signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements 
				Moldova
				party to: Air Pollution, Air Pollution-Persistent Organic Pollutants, Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species, Hazardous Wastes, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution, Wetlands 
				signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements 
				Monaco
				party to: Air Pollution, Air Pollution-Sulfur 94, Air Pollution-Volatile Organic Compounds, Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Marine Dumping, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution, Wetlands, Whaling 
				signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements 
				Mongolia
				party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species, Environmental Modification, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution, Wetlands, Whaling 
				signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements 
				Montenegro
				party to: Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Marine Dumping, Ship Pollution 
				Morocco
				party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Marine Dumping, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution, Wetlands, Whaling 
				signed, but not ratified: Environmental Modification 
				Mozambique
				party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution, Wetlands 
				signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements 
				Namibia
				party to: Antarctic-Marine Living Resources, Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Ozone Layer Protection, Wetlands 
				signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements 
				Nauru
				party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Marine Dumping, Ozone Layer Protection, Whaling 
				signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements 
				Nepal
				party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Ozone Layer Protection, Tropical Timber 83, Tropical Timber 94, Wetlands 
				signed, but not ratified: Marine Life Conservation 
				Netherlands
				party to: Air Pollution, Air Pollution-Nitrogen Oxides, Air Pollution-Persistent Organic Pollutants, Air Pollution-Sulfur 85, Air Pollution-Sulfur 94, Air Pollution-Volatile Organic Compounds, Antarctic-Environmental Protocol, Antarctic-Marine Living Resources, Antarctic Treaty, Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species, Environmental Modification, Hazardous Wastes, Kyoto Protocol, Law of the Sea, Marine Dumping, Marine Life Conservation, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution, Tropical Timber 83, Tropical Timber 94, Wetlands, Whaling 
				New Zealand
				party to: Antarctic-Environmental Protocol, Antarctic-Marine Living Resources, Antarctic Treaty, Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species, Environmental Modification, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Marine Dumping, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution, Tropical Timber 83, Tropical Timber 94, Wetlands, Whaling 
				signed, but not ratified: Antarctic Seals, Marine Life Conservation 
				Nicaragua
				party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution, Wetlands, Whaling 
				signed, but not ratified: Environmental Modification 
				Niger
				party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species, Environmental Modification, Hazardous Wastes, Ozone Layer Protection, Wetlands 
				signed, but not ratified: Law of the Sea 
				Nigeria
				party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Marine Dumping, Marine Life Conservation, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution, Wetlands 
				signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements 
				Niue
				party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification, Law of the Sea 
				signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements 
				Norway
				party to: Air Pollution, Air Pollution-Nitrogen Oxides, Air Pollution-Persistent Organic Pollutants, Air Pollution-Sulfur 85, Air Pollution-Sulfur 94, Air Pollution-Volatile Organic Compounds, Antarctic-Environmental Protocol, Antarctic-Marine Living Resources, Antarctic Seals, Antarctic Treaty, Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species, Environmental Modification, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Marine Dumping, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution, Tropical Timber 83, Tropical Timber 94, Wetlands, Whaling 
				signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements 
				Oman
				party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Marine Dumping, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution, Whaling 
				signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements 
				Pakistan
				party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species, Environmental Modification, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Marine Dumping, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution, Wetlands 
				signed, but not ratified: Marine Life Conservation 
				Palau
				party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification, Law of the Sea, Ozone Layer Protection, Wetlands, Whaling 
				signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements 
				Panama
				party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Marine Dumping, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution, Tropical Timber 83, Tropical Timber 94, Wetlands, Whaling 
				signed, but not ratified: Marine Life Conservation 
				Papua New Guinea
				party to: Antarctic Treaty, Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species, Environmental Modification, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Marine Dumping, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution, Tropical Timber 83, Tropical Timber 94, Wetlands 
				signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements 
				Paraguay
				party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Ozone Layer Protection, Wetlands 
				signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements 
				Peru
				party to: Antarctic-Environmental Protocol, Antarctic-Marine Living Resources, Antarctic Treaty, Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species, Hazardous Wastes, Marine Dumping, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution, Tropical Timber 83, Tropical Timber 94, Wetlands, Whaling 
				signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements 
				Philippines
				party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Marine Dumping, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution, Tropical Timber 83, Tropical Timber 94, Wetlands, Whaling 
				signed, but not ratified: Air Pollution-Persistent Organic Pollutants 
				Poland
				party to: Air Pollution, Antarctic-Environmental Protocol, Antarctic-Marine Living Resources, Antarctic Seals, Antarctic Treaty, Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species, Environmental Modification, Hazardous Wastes, Kyoto Protocol, Law of the Sea, Marine Dumping, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution, Wetlands 
				signed, but not ratified: Air Pollution-Nitrogen Oxides, Air Pollution-Persistent Organic Pollutants, Air Pollution-Sulfur 94 
				Portugal
				party to: Air Pollution, Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Marine Dumping, Marine Life Conservation, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution, Tropical Timber 83, Tropical Timber 94, Wetlands, Whaling 
				signed, but not ratified: Air Pollution-Persistent Organic Pollutants, Air Pollution-Volatile Organic Compounds, Environmental Modification 
				Qatar
				party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution 
				signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements 
				Romania
				party to: Air Pollution, Air Pollution-Persistent Organic Pollutants, Antarctic-Environmental Protocol, Antarctic Treaty, Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species, Environmental Modification, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution, Wetlands 
				signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements 
				Russia
				party to: Air Pollution, Air Pollution-Nitrogen Oxides, Air Pollution-Sulfur 85, Antarctic-Environmental Protocol, Antarctic-Marine Living Resources, Antarctic Seals, Antarctic Treaty, Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol, Endangered Species, Environmental Modification, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Marine Dumping, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution, Tropical Timber 83, Wetlands, Whaling 
				signed, but not ratified: Air Pollution-Sulfur 94 
				Rwanda
				party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species, Hazardous Wastes, Ozone Layer Protection, Wetlands 
				signed, but not ratified: Law of the Sea 
				Saint Kitts and Nevis
				party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Marine Dumping, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution, Whaling 
				signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements 
				Saint Lucia
				party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species, Environmental Modification, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Marine Dumping, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution, Wetlands, Whaling 
				signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements 
				Saint Vincent and the Grenadines
				party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species, Environmental Modification, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Marine Dumping, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution, Whaling 
				signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements 
				Samoa
				party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution, Wetlands 
				signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements 
				San Marino
				party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Desertification, Whaling 
				signed, but not ratified: Air Pollution 
				Sao Tome and Principe
				party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Desertification, Endangered Species, Environmental Modification, Law of the Sea, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution, Wetlands 
				signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements 
				Saudi Arabia
				party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Marine Dumping, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution 
				signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements 
				Senegal
				party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Marine Life Conservation, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution, Wetlands, Whaling 
				Serbia
				party to: Air Pollution, Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol, Endangered Species, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Marine Dumping, Marine Life Conservation, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution, Wetlands 
				signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements 
				Seychelles
				party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Marine Dumping, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution, Wetlands 
				signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements 
				Sierra Leone
				party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species, Law of the Sea, Marine Life Conservation, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution, Wetlands 
				signed, but not ratified: Environmental Modification 
				Singapore
				party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution 
				signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements 
				Slovakia
				party to: Air Pollution, Air Pollution-Nitrogen Oxides, Air Pollution-Persistent Organic Pollutants, Air Pollution-Sulfur 85, Air Pollution-Sulfur 94, Air Pollution-Volatile Organic Compounds, Antarctic Treaty, Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species, Environmental Modification, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution, Wetlands, Whaling 
				signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements 
				Slovenia
				party to: Air Pollution, Air Pollution-Nitrogen Oxides, Air Pollution-Sulfur 94, Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Marine Dumping, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution, Wetlands, Whaling 
				signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements 
				Solomon Islands
				party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification, Environmental Modification, Law of the Sea, Marine Dumping, Marine Life Conservation, Ozone Layer Protection, Whaling 
				signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements 
				Somalia
				party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Endangered Species, Law of the Sea, Ozone Layer Protection 
				South Africa
				party to: Antarctic-Environmental Protocol, Antarctic-Marine Living Resources, Antarctic Seals, Antarctic Treaty, Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Marine Dumping, Marine Life Conservation, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution, Wetlands, Whaling 
				signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements 
				Southern Ocean
			the Southern Ocean is subject to all international agreements regarding the world's oceans; in addition, it is subject to these agreements specific to the Antarctic region: International Whaling Commission (prohibits commercial whaling south of 40 degrees south [south of 60 degrees south between 50 degrees and 130 degrees west]); Convention on the Conservation of Antarctic Seals (limits sealing); Convention on the Conservation of Antarctic Marine Living Resources (regulates fishing) 
				note: many nations (including the US) prohibit mineral resource exploration and exploitation south of the fluctuating Polar Front (Antarctic Convergence), which is in the middle of the Antarctic Circumpolar Current and serves as the dividing line between the cold polar surface waters to the south and the warmer waters to the north 
				Spain
				party to: Air Pollution, Air Pollution-Nitrogen Oxides, Air Pollution-Sulfur 94, Air Pollution-Volatile Organic Compounds, Antarctic-Environmental Protocol, Antarctic-Marine Living Resources, Antarctic Treaty, Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species, Environmental Modification, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Marine Dumping, Marine Life Conservation, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution, Tropical Timber 83, Tropical Timber 94, Wetlands, Whaling 
				signed, but not ratified: Air Pollution-Persistent Organic Pollutants 
				Sri Lanka
				party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species, Environmental Modification, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution, Wetlands 
				signed, but not ratified: Marine Life Conservation 
				Sudan
				party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Ozone Layer Protection, Wetlands 
				signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements 
				Suriname
				party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species, Law of the Sea, Marine Dumping, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution, Tropical Timber 94, Wetlands, Whaling 
				signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements 
				Swaziland
				party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species, Hazardous Wastes, Ozone Layer Protection 
				signed, but not ratified: Law of the Sea 
				Sweden
				party to: Air Pollution, Air Pollution-Nitrogen Oxides, Air Pollution-Persistent Organic Pollutants, Air Pollution-Sulfur 85, Air Pollution-Sulfur 94, Air Pollution-Volatile Organic Compounds, Antarctic-Environmental Protocol, Antarctic-Marine Living Resources, Antarctic Treaty, Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species, Environmental Modification, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Marine Dumping, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution, Tropical Timber 83, Tropical Timber 94, Wetlands, Whaling 
				signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements 
				Switzerland
				party to: Air Pollution, Air Pollution-Nitrogen Oxides, Air Pollution-Persistent Organic Pollutants, Air Pollution-Sulfur 85, Air Pollution-Sulfur 94, Air Pollution-Volatile Organic Compounds, Antarctic Treaty, Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species, Environmental Modification, Hazardous Wastes, Marine Dumping, Marine Life Conservation, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution, Tropical Timber 83, Tropical Timber 94, Wetlands, Whaling 
				signed, but not ratified: Law of the Sea 
				Syria
				party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species, Hazardous Wastes, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution, Wetlands 
				signed, but not ratified: Environmental Modification 
				Taiwan
				party to: none of the selected agreements because of Taiwan's international status 
				signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements because of Taiwan's international status 
				Tajikistan
				party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Desertification, Environmental Modification, Ozone Layer Protection, Wetlands 
				signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements 
				Tanzania
				party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Ozone Layer Protection, Wetlands 
				signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements 
				Thailand
				party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species, Hazardous Wastes, Marine Life Conservation, Ozone Layer Protection, Tropical Timber 83, Tropical Timber 94, Wetlands 
				signed, but not ratified: Law of the Sea 
				Timor-Leste
				party to: Climate Change, Desertification 
				Togo
				party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species, Law of the Sea, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution, Tropical Timber 83, Tropical Timber 94, Wetlands, Whaling 
				signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements 
				Tonga
				party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification, Law of the Sea, Marine Dumping, Marine Life Conservation, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution 
				signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements 
				Trinidad and Tobago
				party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Marine Dumping, Marine Life Conservation, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution, Tropical Timber 83, Tropical Timber 94, Wetlands 
				signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements 
				Tunisia
				party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species, Environmental Modification, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Marine Dumping, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution, Wetlands 
				signed, but not ratified: Marine Life Conservation 
				Turkey
				party to: Air Pollution, Antarctic Treaty, Biodiversity, Climate Change, Desertification, Endangered Species, Hazardous Wastes, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution, Wetlands 
				signed, but not ratified: Environmental Modification 
				Turkmenistan
				party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification, Hazardous Wastes, Ozone Layer Protection 
				signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements 
				Tuvalu
				party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification, Law of the Sea, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution, Whaling 
				signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements 
				Uganda
				party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Marine Life Conservation, Ozone Layer Protection, Wetlands 
				signed, but not ratified: Environmental Modification 
				Ukraine
				party to: Air Pollution, Air Pollution-Nitrogen Oxides, Air Pollution-Sulfur 85, Antarctic-Environmental Protocol, Antarctic-Marine Living Resources, Antarctic Treaty, Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol, Endangered Species, Environmental Modification, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Marine Dumping, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution, Wetlands 
				signed, but not ratified: Air Pollution-Persistent Organic Pollutants, Air Pollution-Sulfur 94, Air Pollution-Volatile Organic Compounds 
				United Arab Emirates
				party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species, Hazardous Wastes, Marine Dumping, Ozone Layer Protection 
				signed, but not ratified: Law of the Sea 
				United Kingdom
				party to: Air Pollution, Air Pollution-Nitrogen Oxides, Air Pollution-Persistent Organic Pollutants, Air Pollution-Sulfur 94, Air Pollution-Volatile Organic Compounds, Antarctic-Environmental Protocol, Antarctic-Marine Living Resources, Antarctic Seals, Antarctic Treaty, Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species, Environmental Modification, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Marine Dumping, Marine Life Conservation, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution, Tropical Timber 83, Tropical Timber 94, Wetlands, Whaling 
				signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements 
				United States
				party to: Air Pollution, Air Pollution-Nitrogen Oxides, Antarctic-Environmental Protocol, Antarctic-Marine Living Resources, Antarctic Seals, Antarctic Treaty, Climate Change, Desertification, Endangered Species, Environmental Modification, Marine Dumping, Marine Life Conservation, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution, Tropical Timber 83, Tropical Timber 94, Wetlands, Whaling 
				signed, but not ratified: Air Pollution-Persistent Organic Pollutants, Air Pollution-Volatile Organic Compounds, Biodiversity, Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol, Hazardous Wastes 
				Uruguay
				party to: Antarctic-Environmental Protocol, Antarctic-Marine Living Resources, Antarctic Treaty, Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species, Environmental Modification, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution, Tropical Timber 94, Wetlands 
				signed, but not ratified: Marine Dumping, Marine Life Conservation 
				Uzbekistan
				party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species, Environmental Modification, Hazardous Wastes, Ozone Layer Protection, Wetlands 
				signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements 
				Vanuatu
				party to: Antarctic-Marine Living Resources, Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species, Law of the Sea, Marine Dumping, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution, Tropical Timber 94 
				signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements 
				Venezuela
				party to: Antarctic Treaty, Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species, Hazardous Wastes, Marine Life Conservation, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution, Tropical Timber 83, Tropical Timber 94, Wetlands 
				signed but not ratified:: none of the selected agreements 
				Vietnam
				party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species, Environmental Modification, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution, Wetlands 
				signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements 
				Western Sahara
				party to: none of the selected agreements 
				signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements 
				Yemen
				party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species, Environmental Modification, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Ozone Layer Protection 
				signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements 
				Zambia
				party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Ozone Layer Protection, Wetlands 
				signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements 
				Zimbabwe
				party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Desertification, Endangered Species, Law of the Sea, Ozone Layer Protection 
				signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements  		
				This page was last updated on 19 March 2009
&nbsp; 
CIA - The World Factbook -- Field Listing - Political parties and leaders
&nbsp; 
				    &nbsp; 
                    Field Listing - Political parties and leaders
         Home 
          &nbsp;Reference Maps 
          &nbsp;Appendixes 
			Country
			Political parties and leaders 	
				Afghanistan
			Afghanistan Peoples' Treaty Party [Sayyed Amir TAHSEEN]; Afghanistan's Islamic Mission Organization [Abdul Rasoul SAYYAF]; Afghanistan's Islamic Nation Party [Toran Noor Aqa Ahmad ZAI]; Afghanistan's National Islamic Party [Rohullah LOUDIN]; Afghanistan's Welfare Party [Meer Asef ZAEEFI]; Afghan Social Democratic Party [Anwarul Haq AHADI]; Afghan Society for the Call to the Koran and Sunna [Mawlawee Samiullah NAJEEBEE]; Comprehensive Movement of Democracy and Development of Afghanistan Party [Sher Mohammad BAZGAR]; Democratic Party of Afghanistan [Tawos ARAB]; Democratic Party of Afghanistan [Abdul Kabir RANJBAR]; Elites People of Afghanistan Party [Abdul Hamid JAWAD]; Freedom and Democracy Movement of Afghanistan [Abdul Raqib Jawid KOHISTANEE]; Freedom Party of Afghanistan [Ilaj Abdul MALEK]; Freedom Party of Afghanistan [Dr. Ghulam Farooq NEJRABEE]; Hizullah-e-Afghanistan [Qari Ahmad ALI]; Human Rights Protection and Development Party of Afghanistan [Baryalai NASRATI]; Islamic Justice Party of Afghanistan [Mohammad Kabir MARZBAN]; Islamic Movement of Afghanistan [Mohammad Ali JAWID]; Islamic Movement of Afghanistan Party [Mohammad Mukhtar MUFLEH]; Islamic Party of Afghanistan [Mohammad Khalid FAROOQI, Abdul Hadi ARGHANDIWAL]; Islamic Party of the Afghan Land [Mohammad Hassan FEROZKHEL]; Islamic People's Movement of Afghanistan [Ilhaj Said Hussain ANWARY]; Islamic Society of Afghanistan [Ustad RABBANI]; Islamic Unity of the Nation of Afghanistan Party [Qurban Ali URFANI]; Islamic Unity Party of Afghanistan [Mohammad Karim KHALILI]; Islamic Unity Party of the People of Afghanistan [Ustad Mohammad MOHAQQEQ]; Labor and Progress of Afghanistan Party [Zulfiqar OMID]; Muslim People of Afghanistan Party [Besmellah JOYAN]; Muslim Unity Movement Party of Afghanistan [Wazir Mohammad WAHDAT]; National and Islamic Sovereignty Movement Party of Afghanistan [Ahmad Shah AHMADZAI]; National Congress Party of Afghanistan [Abdul Latif PEDRAM]; National Country Party [Ghulam MOHAMMAD]; National Development Party of Afghanistan [Dr. Aref BAKTASH]; National Freedom Seekers Party [Abdul Hadi DABEER]; National Independence Party of Afghanistan [Taj Mohammad WARDAK]; National Islamic Fighters Party of Afghanistan [Amanat NINGARHAREE]; National Islamic Front of Afghanistan [Pir Sayed Ahmad GAILANEE]; National Islamic Moderation Party of Afghanistan [Qara Bik Eized YAAR]; National Islamic Movement of Afghanistan [Sayed NOORULLAH]; National Islamic Unity Party of Afghanistan [Mohammad AKBAREE]; National Movement of Afghanistan [Ahmad Wali MASOOUD]; National Party of Afghanistan [Abdul Rashid ARYAN]; National Patch of Afghanistan Party [Sayed Kamal SADAT]; National Peace Islamic Party of Afghanistan [Shah Mohammood Popal ZAI]; National Peace & Islamic Party of the Tribes of Afghanistan [Abdul Qaher SHARIATEE]; National Peace & Unity Party of Afghanistan [Abdul Qader IMAMI]; National Prosperity and Islamic Party of Afghanistan [Mohammad Osman SALEKZADA]; National Prosperity Party [Mohammad Hassan JAHFAREE]; National Solidarity Movement of Afghanistan [Pir Sayed Eshaq GAILANEE]; National Solidarity Party of Afghanistan [Sayed Mansoor NADREEI]; National Sovereignty Party [Sayed Mustafa KAZEMI]; National Stability Party [Mohammad Same KHAROTI]; National Stance Party [Habibullah JANEBDAR]; National Tribal Unity Islamic Party of Afghanistan [Mohammad Shah KHOGYANI]; National United Front [Burhanuddin RABBANI] (a coalition); National Unity Movement [Sultan Mohammad GHAZI]; National Unity Movement of Afghanistan [Mohammad Nadir AATASH]; National Unity Party of Afghanistan [Abdul Rashid JALILI]; New Afghanistan Party [Mohammad Yunis QANUNI]; Peace and National Welfare Activists Society [Shamsul Haq Noor SHAMS]; Peace Movement [Shahnawaz TANAI]; People's Aspirations Party of Afghanistan [Ilhaj Saraj-u-din ZAFAREE]; People's Freedom Seekers Party of Afghanistan [Feda Mohammad EHSAS]; People's Liberal Freedom Seekers Party of Afghanistan [Ajmal SUHAIL]; People's Message Party of Afghanistan [Noor Aqa WAINEE]; People's Movement of the National Unity of Afghanistan [Abdul Hakim NOORZAI]; People's Party of Afghanistan [Ahmad Shah ASAR]; People's Prosperity Party of Afghanistan [Ustad Mohammad ZAREEF]; People's Sovereignty Movement of Afghanistan [Hayatullah SUBHANEE]; People's Uprising Party of Afghanistan [Sayed Zahir Qayed Omul BELADI]; People's Welfare Party of Afghanistan [Mia Gul WASIQ]; People's Welfare Party of Afghanistan [Mohammad Zubair PAIROZ]; Progressive Democratic Party of Afghanistan [Wali ARYA]; Republican Party [Sebghatullah SANJAR]; Solidarity Party of Afghanistan [Abdul Khaleq NEMAT]; The Afghanistan's Mujahid Nation's Islamic Unity Movement	 [Saeedullah SAEED]; The People of Afghanistan's Democratic Movement [Sharif NAZARI]; Tribes Solidarity Party of Afghanistan [Mohammad Zarif NASERI]; Understanding and Democracy Party of Afghanistan [Ahamad SHAHEEN]; United Afghanistan Party [Mohammad Wasil RAHIMEE]; United Islamic Party of Afghanistan [Wahidullah SABAWOON]; Young Afghanistan's Islamic Organization [Sayed Jawad HUSSINEE]; Youth Solidarity Party of Afghanistan [Mohammad Jamil KARZAI]; note - includes only political parties approved by the Ministry of Justice 
				Albania
			Agrarian Environmentalist Party or PAA [Lufter XHUVELI]; Christian Democratic Party or PDK [Nard NDOKA]; Communist Party of Albania or PKSH [Hysni MILLOSHI]; Democratic Alliance Party or AD [Neritan CEKA]; Democratic Party or PD [Sali BERISHA]; G99 Political Movement [Erion VELIAJ]; Liberal Union Party or BLD [Arjan STAROVA]; National Front Party (Balli Kombetar) or PBK [Artur ROSHI]; New Democratic Party or PDR [Genc POLLO]; Republican Party or PR [Fatmir MEDIU]; Social Democracy Party of Albania or PDSSh [Paskal MILO]; Social Democratic Party or PSD [Skender GJINUSHI]; Socialist Movement for Integration or LSI [Ilir META]; Socialist Party or PS [Edi RAMA]; Socialist Party 1991 [Petro KOCI]; Union for Human Rights Party or PBDNj [Vangjel DULE] 
				Algeria
			Ahd 54 [Ali Fauzi REBAINE]; Algerian National Front or FNA [Moussa TOUATI]; National Democratic Rally (Rassemblement National Democratique) or RND [Ahmed OUYAHIA]; National Liberation Front or FLN [Abdelaziz BELKHADEM, secretary general]; National Reform Movement or Islah (formerly MRN) [Mohamed BOULAHIA]; Rally for Culture and Democracy or RCD [Said SADI]; Renaissance Movement or EnNahda Movement [Fatah RABEI]; Socialist Forces Front or FFS [Hocine Ait AHMED]; Society of Peace Movement or MSP [Boudjerra SOLTANI]; Workers Party or PT [Louisa HANOUNE] 
				note: a law banning political parties based on religion was enacted in March 1997 
				American Samoa
			Democratic Party [Oreta M. TOGAFAU]; Republican Party [Tautai A. F. FAALEVAO] 
				Andorra
			Andorran Democratic Center Party (formerly Democratic Party or PD) and Century 21 or CDA and S21 [Enric TARRADO]; Liberal Party of Andorra or PLA [Albert PINTAT SANTOLARIA] (formerly Liberal Union or UL); Social Democratic Party or PS [Jaume BARTUMEU CASSANY] (formerly part of National Democratic Group or AND) 
				Angola
			National Front for the Liberation of Angola or FNLA [Ngola KABANGU]; National Union for the Total Independence of Angola or UNITA (largest opposition party) [Isaias SAMAKUVA]; Popular Movement for the Liberation of Angola or MPLA (ruling party in power since 1975) [Jose Eduardo DOS SANTOS]; Social Renewal Party or PRS [Eduardo KUANGANA] 
				note: nine other parties participated in the legislative election in September but won no seats 
				Anguilla
			Anguilla United Front or AUF [Osbourne FLEMING, Victor BANKS] (a coalition of the Anguilla Democratic Party or ADP and the Anguilla National Alliance or ANA); Anguilla United Movement or AUM [Hubert HUGHES]; Anguilla Progressive Party or APP [Roy ROGERS]; Anguilla Strategic Alternative or ANSA [Edison BAIRD] 
				Antigua and Barbuda
			Antigua Labor Party or ALP [Lester Bryant BIRD]; Barbudans for a Better Barbuda [Ordrick SAMUEL]; Barbuda People's Movement or BPM [Thomas H. FRANK]; Barbuda People's Movement for Change [Arthur NIBBS]; United Progressive Party or UPP [Baldwin SPENCER] (a coalition of three parties - Antigua Caribbean Liberation Movement or ACLM, Progressive Labor Movement or PLM, United National Democratic Party or UNDP) 
				Argentina
			Coalicion Civica (a broad coalition loosely affiliated with Elisa CARRIO); Front for Victory or FpV (a broad coalition, including elements of the UCR and numerous provincial parties) [Nestor KIRCHNER]; Interbloque Federal or IF (a broad coalition of approximately 12 parties including PRO); Justicialist Party or PJ [Nestor KIRCHNER]; Radical Civic Union or UCR [Gerardo MORALES]; Republican Proposal or PRO [Mauricio MACRI] (including Federal Recreate Movement or RECREAR [Esteban BULLRICH]; Socialist Party or PS [Ruben GIUSTINIANI]; Union For All [Patricia BULLRICH]; several provincial parties 
				Armenia
			Armenian National Congress or ANC [Levon TER-PETROSSIAN]; Armenian National Movement or ANM [Ararat ZURABYAN]; Armenian People's Party [Tigran KARAPETYAN]; Armenian Ramkavar Azadagan Party Alliance or HRAK (includes former Dashink Party, National Revival Party, and Ramkavar Liberal Party); Armenian Revolutionary Federation ("Dashnak" Party) or ARF [Hrant MARKARYAN]; Heritage Party [Raffi HOVHANNISYAN]; National Democratic Party [Shavarsh KOCHARIAN]; National Democratic Union or NDU [Vazgen MANUKIAN]; National Unity Party [Artashes GEGHAMYAN]; People's Party of Armenia [Stepan DEMIRCHYAN]; Prosperous Armenia [Gagik TSAROUKYAN]; Republic Party [Aram SARKISYAN]; Republican Party of Armenia or HHK [Serzh SARGSIAN]; Rule of Law Party (Orinats Yerkir) [Artur BAGHDASARIAN]; Union of Constitutional Rights [Hrant KHACHATURYAN]; United Labor Party [Gurgen ARSENYAN] 
				Aruba
			Aliansa/Aruban Social Movement or MSA [Robert WEVER]; Aruban Liberal Organization or OLA [Glenbert CROES]; Aruban Patriotic Movement or MPA [Monica ARENDS-KOCK]; Aruban Patriotic Party or PPA [Benny NISBET]; Aruban People's Party or AVP [Mike EMAN]; People's Electoral Movement Party or MEP [Nelson O. ODUBER]; Real Democracy or PDR [Andin BIKKER]; RED [Rudy LAMPE]; Workers Political Platform or PTT [Gregorio WOLFF] 
				Australia
			Australian Democrats [Lyn ALLISON]; Australian Greens [Bob BROWN]; Australian Labor Party [Kevin RUDD]; Country Liberal Party [Terry MILLS]; Family First Party [Steve FIELDING]; Liberal Party [Malcolm TURNBULL]; The Nationals [Warren TRUSS] 
				Austria
			Alliance for the Future of Austria or BZOe [Herbert SCHEIBNER]; note - new party chairman will be elected in April 2009; Austrian People's Party or OeVP [Josef PROELL]; Freedom Party of Austria or FPOe [Heinz Christian STRACHE]; Social Democratic Party of Austria or SPOe [Werner FAYMANN]; The Greens [Eva GLAWISCHNIG] 
				Azerbaijan
			Azadliq (Freedom) coalition (Popular Front Party, Liberal Party, Citizens' Development Party); Azerbaijan Democratic Party or ADP [Sardar JALALOGLU]; Azerbaijan Democratic Reforms Party (ADRP) Youth Movement [Ramin HAJILI]; Azerbaijan Popular Front or APF, now split in two [Ali KARIMLI, leader of "Reform" APF party; Mirmahmud MIRALI-OGLU, leader of "Classic" APF party]; Azerbaijan Public Forum [Eldar NAMAZOV]; Citizens' Development Party [Ali ALIYEV]; Civil Solidarity Party or CSP [Sabir RUSTAMKHANLY]; Dalga Youth Movement [Vafa JAFAROVA]; Green Party [Mais GULALIYEV and Tarana MAMMADOVA]; Hope (Umid) Party [Iqbal AGAZADE]; Ireli Youth Movement [Jeyhun OSMANLI, Roya TALIBOVA, Farhad MAMMADOV, Elnara GARIBOVA, Elnur MAMMADOV, Ziya ALIYEV]; Justice Party [Ilyas ISMAILOV]; Liberal Party of Azerbaijan [Lala Shovkat HACIYEVA]; Magam Youth Movement [Emin HUSEYNOV]; Motherland Party [Fazail AGAMALI]; Musavat (Equality) [Isa GAMBAR, chairman]; Musavat Party Youth Movement [Elnur MAMMADLI]; National Democratic Party or Grey Wolves (Nationalist, Pan-Turkic) [Iskender HAMIDOV]; Open Society Party [Rasul GULIYEV, in exile in the US]; Party for National Independence of Azerbaijan or PNIA [Ayaz RUSTAMOV]; Popular Front Party Youth Movement [Seymur KHAZIYEV]; Social Democratic Party of Azerbaijan or SDP [Araz ALIZADE and Ayaz MUTALIBOV (in exile)]; Turkish Nationalist Party [Vugar BAYTURAN]; United Azerbaijan Party [Karrar ABILOV]; United Azerbaijan National Unity Party [Hajibaba AZIMOV]; United Party [Tahir KARIMLI]; Yeni (New) Azerbaijan Party [President Ilham ALIYEV]; Yeni Azerbaijan Party Youth Movement [Ramil HASANOV]; Yox (No) Youth Movement [Ali ISMAYILOV] 
				note: opposition parties regularly factionalize and form new parties; 
				Bahamas, The
			Free National Movement or FNM [Hubert INGRAHAM]; Progressive Liberal Party or PLP [Perry CHRISTIE] 
				Bahrain
			political parties prohibited but political societies were legalized per a July 2005 law 
				Bangladesh
			Awami League or AL [Sheikh HASINA]; Bangladesh Communist Party or BCP [Manjurul A. KHAN]; Bangladesh Nationalist Party or BNP [Khaleda ZIA]; Islami Oikya Jote or IOJ [Mufti Fazlul Haq AMINI]; Jamaat-e-Islami Bangladesh or JIB [Matiur Rahman NIZAMI]; Jatiya Party or JP (Ershad faction) [Hussain Mohammad ERSHAD]; Jatiya Party (Manzur faction) [Naziur Rahman MANZUR]; Liberal Democratic Party or LDP [Badrudozza CHOWDHURY and Oli AHMED] 
				Barbados
			Barbados Labor Party or BLP [Mia MOTTLEY]; Democratic Labor Party or DLP [David THOMPSON]; People's Empowerment Party or PEP [David COMISSIONG] 
				Belarus
				pro-government parties: Agrarian Party or AP [Mikhail SHIMANSKY]; Communist Party of Belarus or KPB; Belarusian Patriotic Movement (Belarusian Patriotic Party) or BPR [Nikolay ULAKHOVICH, chairman]; Liberal Democratic Party [Sergey GAYDUKEVICH]; Republican Party of Labor and Justice [Viktor SOKOLOV]; Social-Sports Party [Vladimir ALEXANDROVICH] 
				opposition parties: Belarusian Christian Democracy Party (unregistered) [Pavel SEVERINETS]; Belarusian Party of Communists or PKB [Sergey KALYAKIN]; Belarusian Party of Labor (unregistered) [Aleksandr BUKHVOSTOV, Leonid LEMESHONAK]; Belarusian Popular Front or BPF [Levon BARSHCHEVSKIY]; Belarusian Social-Democratic Gramada [Stanislav SHUSHKEVICH]; Belarusian Social Democratic Party Hramada (People's Assembly) or BSDPH [Anatoliy LEVKOVICH]; European Coalition [Nikolay STATKEVICH]; Green Party [Oleg GROMYKO]; Party of Freedom and Progress (unregistered) [Vladimir NOVOSYAD]; United Civic Party or UCP [Anatoliy LEBEDKO]; Women's Party Hope (Nadezhda) [Valentina MATUSEVICH, chairperson] 
				other opposition includes: Christian Conservative BPF [Zyanon PAZNIAK]; Ecological Party of Greens [Mikhail KARTASH]; Party of Popular Accord [Sergey YERMAKK]; Republican Party [Vladimir BELAZOR] 
				Belgium
				Flemish parties: Christian Democratic and Flemish or CDV [Marianne THYSSEN]; Dedecker List [Jean-Marie DEDECKER]; Flemish Liberals and Democrats or Open VLD [Bart SOMERS]; Groen! [Mieke VOGELS] (formerly AGALEV, Flemish Greens); New Flemish Alliance or N-VA [Bart DE WEVER]; Social Liberal Party or SLP [Geert LAMBERT]; Social Progressive Alternative or SP.A [Caroline GENNEZ]; Vlaams Belang (Flemish Interest) or VB [Bruno VALKENIERS] 
				Francophone parties: Ecolo (Francophone Greens) [Jean-Michel JAVAUX, Isabelle DURANT]; Humanist and Democratic Center or CDH [Joelle MILQUET]; National Front or FN [Daniel HUYGENS]; Reform Movement or MR [Didier REYNDERS]; Socialist Party or PS [Elio DI RUPO]; other minor parties 
				Belize
			National Alliance for Belizean Rights or NABR; National Reform Party or NRP [Cornelius DUECK]; People's National Party or PNP [Wil MAHEIA]; People's United Party or PUP [Said MUSA]; United Democratic Party or UDP [Dean BARROW]; Vision Inspired by the People or VIP [Paul MORGAN]; We the People Reform Movement or WTP [Hipolito BAUTISTA] 
				Benin
			Alliance for Dynamic Democracy or ADD; Alliance of Progress Forces or AFP; African Movement for Democracy and Progress or MADEP [Sefou FAGBOHOUN]; Benin Renaissance or RB [Rosine SOGLO]; Democratic Renewal Party or PRD [Adrien HOUNGBEDJI]; Force Cowrie for an Emerging Benin or FCBE; Impulse for Progress and Democracy or IPD [Theophile NATA]; Key Force or FC [Lazare SHOUTO]; Movement for the People's Alternative or MAP [Olivier CAPO-CHICHI]; Rally for Democracy and Progress or RDP [Dominique HOUNGNINOU]; Social Democrat Party or PSD [Bruno AMOUSSOU]; Union for the Relief or UPR [Issa SALIFOU]; Union for Democracy and National Solidarity or UDS [Sacca LAFIA] 
				note: approximately 20 additional minor parties 
				Bermuda
			Progressive Labor Party or PLP [Ewart BROWN]; United Bermuda Party or UBP [Kim SWAN] 
				Bhutan
			Bhutan Peace and Prosperity Party (Druk Phuensum Tshogpa) or DPT [Jigme THINLEY]; People's Democratic Party or PDP [Tshering TOBGAY] 
				Bolivia
			Free Bolivia Movement or MBL [Franz BARRIOS]; Movement Toward Socialism or MAS [Juan Evo MORALES Ayma]; Movement Without Fear or MSM [Juan DEL GRANADO]; National Revolutionary Movement or MNR [Mirta QUEVEDO]; National Unity [Samuel DORIA MEDINA Arana]; Poder Democratico Nacional or PODEMOS [Jorge Fernando QUIROGA Ramirez]; Social Alliance [Rene JOAQUINO] 
				Bosnia and Herzegovina
			Alliance of Independent Social Democrats or SNSD [Milorad DODIK]; Bosnian Party or BOSS [Mirnes AJANOVIC]; Bosnian Patriotic Party of BPS [Sefer HALILOVIC]; Civic Democratic Party or GDS [Ibrahim SPAHIC]; Croat Christian Democratic Union of Bosnia and Herzegovina or HKDU [Marin TOPIC]; Croat Party of Rights or HSP [Zvonko JURISIC]; Croat Peasants Party or HSS [Marko TADIC]; Croatian Democratic Union of Bosnia and Herzegovina or HDZ-BH [Dragan COVIC]; Croatian Democratic Union 1990 or HDZ1990 [Bozo LJUBIC]; Croatian Peoples Union [Milenko BRKIC]; Democratic National Union or DNZ [Rifet DOLIC]; Democratic Party of DP [Dragan CAVIC]; Democratic Peoples Alliance or DNS [Marko PAVIC]; Liberal Democratic Party or LDS [Rasim KADIC]; Nasa Stranka or NS [Bojan BAJIC]; New Croat Initiative or NHI [Kresimir ZUBAK]; Party for Bosnia and Herzegovina or SBiH [Haris SILAJDZIC]; Party for Democratic Action or SDA [Sulejman TIHIC]; Party for Work and Progress or RzB [Mladen IVANKOVIC-LIJANOVIC]; Party of Democratic Progress or PDP [Mladen IVANIC]; Serb Democratic Party or SDS [Mladen BOSIC]; Serb Radical Party of the Republika Srpska or SRS-RS [Milanko MIHAJLICA]; Serb Radical Party-Dr. Vojislav Seselj or SRS-VS [Radislav KANJERIC]; Social Democratic Party of BIH or SDP [Zlatko LAGUMDZIJA]; Social Democratic Union or SDU [Sejfudin TOKIC]; Socialist Party of Republika Srpska or SPRS [Petar DJOKIC] 
				Botswana
			Botswana Alliance Movement or BAM [Ephraim Lepetu SETSHWAELO]; Botswana Congress Party or BCP [Gilson SALESHANDO]; Botswana Democratic Party or BDP [Ian KHAMA]; Botswana National Front or BNF [Otswoletse MOUPO]; Botswana Peoples Party or BPP [Bernard BALIKANI]; MELS Movement of Botswana or MELS [Themba JOINA]; New Democratic Front or NDF [Dick BAYFORD] 
				note: a number of minor parties joined forces in 1999 to form the BAM but did not capture any parliamentary seats - includes the United Action Party [Ephraim Lepetu SETSHWAELO]; the Independence Freedom Party or IFP [Motsamai MPHO]; the Botswana Progressive Union [D. K. KWELE] 
				Brazil
			Brazilian Democratic Movement Party or PMDB [Federal Deputy Michel TEMER]; Brazilian Labor Party or PTB [Roberto JEFFERSON]; Brazilian Renewal Labor Party or PRTB [Jose Levy FIDELIX da Cruz]; Brazilian Republican Party or PRB [Vitor Paulo Araujo DOS SANTOS]; Brazilian Social Democracy Party or PSDB [Senator Sergio GUERRA]; Brazilian Socialist Party or PSB [Governor Eduardo Henrique Accioly CAMPOS]; Christian Labor Party or PTC [Daniel TOURINHO]; Communist Party of Brazil or PCdoB [Jose Renato RABELO]; Democratic Labor Party or PDT [Carlos Roberto LUPI]; the Democrats or DEM (formerly Liberal Front Party or PFL) [Federal Deputy Rodrigo MAIA]; Freedom and Socialism Party or PSOL [Heloisa HELENA]; Green Party or PV [Jose Luiz de Franca PENNA]; Humanist Party of Solidarity or PHS [Paulo Roberto MATOS]; Labor Party of Brazil or PTdoB [Luis Henrique de Oliveira RESENDE]; Liberal Front Party or PFL (now known as the Democrats or DEM); National Mobilization Party or PMN [Oscar Noronha FILHO]; Party of the Republic or PR [Sergio TAMER]; Popular Socialist Party or PPS [Federal Deputy Fernando CORUJA]; Progressive Party or PP [Francisco DORNELLES]; Social Christian Party or PSC [Vitor Jorge Abdala NOSSEIS]; Workers' Party or PT [Ricardo Jose Ribeiro BERZOINI] 
				British Virgin Islands
			Concerned Citizens Movement or CCM [Ethlyn SMITH]; National Democratic Party or NDP [Orlando SMITH]; United Party or UP [Gregory MADURO]; Virgin Islands Party or VIP [Ralph T. O'NEAL] 
				Brunei
			National Development Party or NDP [YASSIN Affendi] 
				note: Brunei National Solidarity Party or PPKB [Abdul LATIF bin Chuchu] and People's Awareness Party or PAKAR [Awang Haji MAIDIN bin Haji Ahmad] were deregistered; parties are small and have limited activity 
				Bulgaria
			ATAKA (Attack Coalition) (coalition of parties headed by the Attack National Union); Attack National Union [Volen SIDEROV]; Agrarian National Union or ANU [Stefan LICHEV]; Bulgarian New Democracy [Borislav RALCHEV]; Bulgarian Socialist Party or BSP [Sergei STANISHEV]; Citizens for the European Development of Bulgaria or GERB [Tsvetan TSVETANOV]; Coalition for Bulgaria or CfB (coalition of parties dominated by BSP) [Sergei STANISHEV]; Democrats for a Strong Bulgaria or DSB [Ivan KOSTOV]; Gergyovden [Petar STOYANOVICH]; Internal Macedonian Revolutionary Organization or IMRO [Krasimir KARAKACHANOV]; Liberal Initiative for Democratic European Development or LIDER [Khristo KOVACHKI]; Movement for Rights and Freedoms or MRF [Ahmed DOGAN]; Movement Forward (LIDER, IMRO, ANU, Gergyovden); National Movement for Stability and Progress or NDSV [Simeon SAXE-COBURG-GOTHA] (formerly National Movement Simeon II or NMS2); New Time [Emil KOSHLUKOV]; Union of Democratic Forces or UDF [Martin DIMITROV]; Union of Free Democrats or UFD [Stefan SOFIYANSKI]; United Agrarians [Anastasia MOZER]; United Democratic Forces or UtDF (a coalition of center-right parties dominated by UDF) 
				Burkina Faso
			African Democratic Rally-Alliance for Democracy and Federation or ADF-RDA [Gilbert OUEDRAOGO]; Citizen's Popular Rally or RPC [Antoine QUARE]; Coalition of Democratic Forces of Burkina or CFD-B [Amadou Diemdioda DICKO]; Congress for Democracy and Progress or CDP [Roch Marc-Christian KABORE]; Democratic and Popular Rally or RDP [Nana THIBAUT]; Movement for Tolerance and Progress or MTP [Nayabtigungou Congo KABORE]; Party for African Independence or PAI [Soumane TOURE]; Party for Democracy and Progress/Socialist Party or PDP/PS [Ali LANKOANDE]; Party for Democracy and Socialism or PDS [Felix SOUBEIGA]; Party for National Rebirth or PAREN [Jeanne TRAORE]; Rally for the Development of Burkina or RDB [Antoine KARGOUGOU]; Rally of Ecologists of Burkina Faso or RDEB [Ram OUEDRAGO]; Republican Party for Integration and Solidarity or PARIS; Union for Democracy and Social Progress or UDPS [Fidele HIEN]; Union for Rebirth - Sankarist Movement or UNIR-MS [Benewende STANISLAS]; Union for the Republic or UPR [Toussaint Abel COULIBALY]; Union of Sankarist Parties or UPS [Ernest Nongma OUEDRAOGO] 
				Burma
			National League for Democracy or NLD [AUNG SHWE, AUNG SAN SUU KYI]; National Unity Party or NUP (pro-regime) [TUN YE]; Shan Nationalities League for Democracy or SNLD [HKUN HTUN OO]; and numerous other smaller parties 
				Burundi
				governing parties: Burundi Democratic Front or FRODEBU [Leonce NGENDAKUMANA]; National Council for the Defense of Democracy - Front for the Defense of Democracy or CNDD-FDD [Jeremie NGENDAKUMANA]; Unity for National Progress or UPRONA [Aloys RUBUKA] 
				note: a multiparty system was introduced after 1998, included are: National Council for the Defense of Democracy or CNDD [Leonard NYANGOMA]; National Resistance Movement for the Rehabilitation of the Citizen or MRC-Rurenzangemero [Epitace BANYAGANAKANDI]; Party for National Redress or PARENA [Jean-Baptiste BAGAZA] 
				Cambodia
			Cambodian People's Party or CPP [CHEA SIM]; Human Rights Party or HRP [KHEM SOKHA, also spelled KEM SOKHA]; National United Front for an Independent, Neutral, Peaceful, and Cooperative Cambodia or FUNCINPEC [KEV PUT REAKSMEI]; Norodom Ranariddh Party or NRP [CHHIM SEAK LENG]; Sam Rangsi Party or SRP [SAM RANGSI, also spelled SAM RAINSY] 
				Cameroon
			Cameroonian Democratic Union or UDC [Adamou Ndam NJOYA]; Cameroon People's Democratic Movement or CPDM [Paul BIYA]; Movement for the Defense of the Republic or MDR [Dakole DAISSALA]; Movement for the Liberation and Development of Cameroon or MLDC [Marcel YONDO]; National Union for Democracy and Progress or UNDP [Maigari BELLO BOUBA]; Progressive Movement or MP; Social Democratic Front or SDF [John FRU NDI]; Union of Peoples of Cameroon or UPC [Augustin Frederic KODOCK] 
				Canada
			Bloc Quebecois [Gilles DUCEPPE]; Conservative Party of Canada [Stephen HARPER] (a merger of the Canadian Alliance and the Progressive Conservative Party); Green Party [Elizabeth MAY]; Liberal Party [Michael IGNATIEFF]; New Democratic Party [Jack LAYTON] 
				Cape Verde
			African Party for Independence of Cape Verde or PAICV [Jose Maria Pereira NEVES, chairman]; Democratic Christian Party or PDC [Manuel RODRIGUES]; Democratic Renovation Party or PRD [Victor FIDALGO]; Democratic and Independent Cape Verdean Union or UCID [Antonio MONTEIRO]; Movement for Democracy or MPD [Jorge SANTOS]; Party for Democratic Convergence or PCD [Dr. Eurico MONTEIRO]; Party of Work and Solidarity or PTS [Isaias RODRIGUES]; Social Democratic Party or PSD [Joao ALEM] 
				Cayman Islands
			United Democratic Party or UDP [McKeeva BUSH]; People's Progressive Movement or PPM [Kurt TIBBETTS]; note - no national teams (loose groupings of political organizations) were formed for the 2000 elections 
				Central African Republic
			Alliance for Democracy and Progress or ADP [Jacques MBOLIEDAS]; Central African Democratic Rally or RDC [Andre KOLINGBA]; Civic Forum or FC [Gen. Timothee MALENDOMA]; Democratic Forum for Modernity or FODEM [Charles MASSI]; Liberal Democratic Party or PLD [Nestor KOMBO-NAGUEMON]; Londo Association or LONDO; Movement for Democracy and Development or MDD [David DACKO]; Movement for the Liberation of the Central African People or MLPC [Ange-Felix PATASSE] (the party of deposed president); National Convergence or KNK; Patriotic Front for Progress or FPP [Abel GOUMBA]; People's Union for the Republic or UPR [Pierre Sammy MAKFOY]; National Unity Party or PUN [Jean-Paul NGOUPANDE]; Social Democratic Party or PSD [Enoch LAKOUE] 
				Chad
			Federation Action for the Republic or FAR [Ngarledjy YORONGAR]; National Rally for Development and Progress or RNDP [Delwa Kassire KOUMAKOYE]; National Union for Democracy and Renewal or UNDR [Saleh KEBZABO]; Party for Liberty and Development or PLD [Ibni Oumar Mahamat SALEH]; Patriotic Salvation Movement or MPS [Mahamat Saleh AHMAT, chairman]; Rally for Democracy and Progress or RDP [Lol Mahamat CHOUA]; Union for Renewal and Democracy or URD [Gen. Wadal Abdelkader KAMOUGUE] 
				Chile
			Alliance for Chile (Alianza) or APC (including National Renewal or RN [Carlos LARRAIN Pena] and Independent Democratic Union or UDI [Juan Antonio COLOMA Correa]); Coalition of Parties for Democracy (Concertacion) or CPD (including Christian Democratic Party or PDC [Juan Carlos LATORRE Carmona], Socialist Party or PS [Camilo ESCALONA Medina], Party for Democracy or PPD [Pepe AUTH Stewart], and Radical Social Democratic Party or PRSD [Jose Antonio GOMEZ Urrutia]); Communist Party or PC [Guillermo TEILLIER del Valle]; Humanist Party [Marilen CABRERA Olmos] 
				China
			Chinese Communist Party or CCP [HU Jintao]; eight registered small parties controlled by CCP 
				Christmas Island
			none 
				Cocos (Keeling) Islands
			none 
				Colombia
			Colombian Conservative Party or PC [Efrain Jose CEPEDA Sarabia]; Alternative Democratic Pole or PDA [Carlos GAVIRIA Diaz]; Liberal Party or PL [Cesar GAVIRIA Trujillo]; Radical Change or CR [German VARGAS Lleras]; Social National Unity Party or U Party [Carlos FERRO Solanilla] 
				note: Colombia has 15 formally recognized political parties, and numerous unofficial parties that did not meet the vote threshold in the March 2006 legislative elections required for recognition 
				Comoros
			Convention for the Renewal of the Comoros or CRC [AZALI Assowmani]; Camp of the Autonomous Islands or CdIA (a coalition of parties organized by the islands' presidents in opposition to the Union President); Front National pour la Justice or FNJ [Ahmed RACHID] (Islamic party in opposition); Mouvement pour la Democratie et le Progress or MDP-NGDC [Abbas DJOUSSOUF]; Parti Comorien pour la Democratie et le Progress or PCDP [Ali MROUDJAE]; Rassemblement National pour le Development or RND [Omar TAMOU, Abdoulhamid AFFRAITANE] 
				Congo, Democratic Republic of the
			Christian Democrat Party or PDC [Jose ENDUNDO]; Congolese Rally for Democracy or RCD [Azarias RUBERWA]; Convention of Christian Democrats or CDC; Forces of Renewal or FR [Mbusa NYAMWISI]; Movement for the Liberation of the Congo or MLC [Jean-Pierre BEMBA]; People's Party for Reconstruction and Democracy or PPRD [Joseph KABILA]; Social Movement for Renewal or MSR [Pierre LUMBI]; Unified Lumumbist Party or PALU [Antoine GIZENGA]; Union for Democracy and Social Progress or UDPS [Etienne TSHISEKEDI]; Union of Mobutuist Democrats or UDEMO [MOBUTU Nzanga] 
				Congo, Republic of the
			Action Movement for Renewal or MAR; Congolese Movement for Democracy and Integral Development or MCDDI [Michel MAMPOUYA]; Congolese Labour Party or PCT; Movement for Solidarity and Development or MSD; Pan-African Union for Social Development or UPADS [Martin MBERI]; Rally of the Presidential Majority or RMP; Rally for Democracy and Social Progress or RDPS [Jean-Pierre Thystere TCHICAYA, president]; Rally for Democracy and the Republic or RDR [Raymond Damasge NGOLLO]; Union for Democracy and Republic or UDR; United Democratic Forces or FDU [Sebastian EBAO]; many less important parties 
				Cook Islands
			Cook Islands Party or CIP [Henry PUNA]; Democratic Party or Demo [Dr. Terepai MAOATE] 
				Costa Rica
			Authentic Member from Heredia [Jose SALAS]; Citizen Action Party or PAC [Epsy CAMPBELL Barr]; Costa Rican Renovation Party or PRC [Gerardo Justo OROZCO Alvarez]; Democratic Force Party or PFD [Marco NUNEZ Gonzalez]; General Union Party or PUGEN [Carlos Alberto FERNANDEZ Vega]; Homeland First or PP [Juan Jose VARGAS Fallas]; Independent Worker Party or PIO [Jose Alberto CUBERO Carmona]; Libertarian Movement Party or PML [Otto GUEVARA Guth]; National Christian Alliance Party or ANC [Juan Carlos CHAVEZ Mora]; National Integration Party or PIN [Walter MUNOZ Cespedes]; National Liberation Party or PLN [Francisco Antonio PACHECO Fernandez]; National Patriotic Party or PPN [Daniel Enrique REYNOLDS Vargas]; National Restoration Party or PRN [Fabio Enrique DELGADO Hernandez]; National Union Party or PUN [Arturo ACOSTA Mora]; Nationalist Democratic Alliance or ADN [Jose Miguel VILLALOBOS Umana]; Patriotic Union or UP [Jose Miguel CORRALES Bolanos]; Social Christian Unity Party or PUSC [Luis FISHMAN Zonzinski]; Union for Change Party or UPC [Antonio ALVAREZ Desanti]; United Leftist Coalition or IU [Humberto VARGAS Carbonel] 
				Cote d'Ivoire
			Citizen's Democratic Union or UDCY [Theodore MEL EG]; Democratic Party of Cote d'Ivoire or PDCI [Henri Konan BEDIE]; Ivorian Popular Front or FPI [Pascale Affi N'GUESSAN]; Ivorian Worker's Party or PIT [Francis WODIE]; Opposition Movement of the Future or MFA [Innocent Augustin ANAKY]; Rally of the Republicans or RDR [Alassane OUATTARA]; Union for Democracy and Peace in Cote d'Ivoire or UDPCI [Toikeuse MABRI]; over 144 smaller registered parties 
				Croatia
			Croatian Democratic Congress of Slavonia and Baranja or HDSSB [Vladimir SISLJAGIC]; Croatian Democratic Union or HDZ [Ivo SANADER]; Croatian Party of the Right or HSP [Anto DJAPIC]; Croatian Peasant Party or HSS [Josip FRISCIC]; Croatian Pensioner Party or HSU [Silvano HRELJA]; Croatian People's Party or HNS [Radimir CACIC]; Croatian Social Liberal Party or HSLS [Djurdja ADLESIC]; Independent Democratic Serb Party or SDSS [Vojislav STANIMIROVIC]; Istrian Democratic Assembly or IDS [Ivan JAKOVCIC]; Social Democratic Party of Croatia or SDP [Zoran MILANOVIC] 
				Cuba
			Cuban Communist Party or PCC [Fidel CASTRO Ruz, first secretary] 
				Cyprus
				area under government control: Democratic Party or DIKO [Marios KAROYIAN]; Democratic Rally or DISY [Nikos ANASTASIADES]; European Party or EURO.KO [Demetris SYLLOURIS]; Fighting Democratic Movement or ADIK [Dinos MIKHAILIDES]; Green Party of Cyprus [George PERDIKIS]; Movement for Social Democrats or EDEK [Yiannakis OMIROU]; Progressive Party of the Working People or AKEL (Communist Party) [Andros KYPRIANOU]; United Democrats or EDI [Michalis PAPAPETROU] 
				area administered by Turkish Cypriots: Centrist Party or HP [Rasit PERTEV]; Communal Democracy Party or TDP [Mehmet CAKICIL]; Cyprus Socialist Party or KSP [Yusuf ALKIM]; Democratic Party or DP [Serder DENKTASH]; Freedom and Reform Party or ORP [Turgay AVCI]; National Unity Party or UBP [Dervis EROGLU]; Nationalist Justice Party or MAP [Ata TEPE]; New Cyprus Party or YKP [Murat KANATLI]; Politics for the People Party or HIS [Ahmet YONLUER]; Republican Turkish Party or CTP [Ferdi Sabit SOYER]; United Cyprus Party or BKP [Izzet IZCAN] 
				Czech Republic
			Association of Independent Candidates-European Democrats or SNK-ED [Helmut DOHNALEK]; Christian Democratic Union-Czechoslovak People's Party or KDU-CSL [Jiri CUNEK]; Civic Democratic Party or ODS [Mirek TOPOLANEK]; Communist Party of Bohemia and Moravia or KSCM [Vojtech FILIP]; Czech Social Democratic Party or CSSD [Jiri PAROUBEK]; Free Citizens' Party or SSO [Petr MACH]; Green Party [Martin BURSIK]; Independent Democrats (NEZDEM) [Vladimir ZELEZNY]; Party of Open Society (SOS) [Pavel NOVACEK]; Path of Change [Jiri LOBKOWITZ]; Union of Freedom-Democratic Union or US-DEU [Jan CERNY] 
				Denmark
			Christian Democrats [Bjarne Hartung KIRKEGAARD] (was Christian People's Party); Conservative Party [Lene ESPERSEN] (sometimes known as Conservative People's Party); Danish People's Party [Pia KJAERSGAARD]; Liberal Party [Anders Fogh RASMUSSEN]; Liberal Alliance [Naser KHADER](formerly known as New Alliance); Red-Green Unity List (Alliance) [collective leadership] (bloc includes Left Socialist Party, Communist Party of Denmark, Socialist Workers' Party); Social Democratic Party [Helle THORNING-SCHMIDT]; Social Liberal Party [Margrethe VESTAGER]; Socialist People's Party [Villy SOEVNDAL] 
				Djibouti
			Democratic National Party or PND [ADEN Robleh Awaleh]; Democratic Renewal Party or PRD [Abdillahi HAMARITEH]; Djibouti Development Party or PDD [Mohamed Daoud CHEHEM]; Front pour la Restauration de l'Unite Democratique or FRUD [Ali Mohamed DAOUD]; People's Progress Assembly or RPP [Ismail Omar GUELLEH] (governing party); Peoples Social Democratic Party or PPSD [Moumin Bahdon FARAH]; Republican Alliance for Democracy or ARD [Ahmed YOUSSOUF]; Union for a Presidential Majority or UMP (a coalition of parties including RPP, FRUD, PND, and PPSD) [Mohamed Dileita DILEITA]; Union for Democracy and Justice or UDJ 
				Dominica
			Dominica Freedom Party or DFP [Charles SAVARIN]; Dominica Labor Party or DLP [Roosevelt SKERRIT]; Dominica United Workers Party or UWP [Earl WILLIAMS] 
				Dominican Republic
			Dominican Liberation Party or PLD [Leonel FERNANDEZ Reyna]; Dominican Revolutionary Party or PRD [Ramon ALBURQUERQUE]; National Progressive Front [Vincent CASTILLO, Pelegrin CASTILLO]; Social Christian Reformist Party or PRSC [Enrique ANTUN] 
				Ecuador
			Alianza PAIS Movement [Rafael Vicente CORREA Delgado]; Christian Democratic Union or UDC [Diego ORDONEZ Guerrero]; Democratic Left or ID [Andres PAEZ Benalcazar]; Ethical and Democratic Network or RED [Leon ROLDOS]; Institutional Renewal and National Action Party or PRIAN [Alvaro NOBOA]; Pachakutik Plurinational Unity Movement - New Country or MUPP-NP [Jorge GUAMAN]; Patriotic Society Party or PSP [Lucio GUTIERREZ Borbua]; Popular Democratic Movement or MPD [Ciro GUZMAN Aldaz]; Roldosist Party or PRE [Abdala BUCARAM Ortiz, director]; Social Christian Party or PSC [Pascual DEL CIOPPO]; Socialist Party - Broad Front or PS-FA [Gustavo AYALA Cruz] 
				Egypt
			National Democratic Party or NDP (governing party) [Mohamed Hosni MUBARAK]; National Progressive Unionist Grouping or Tagammu [Rifaat EL-SAID]; New Wafd Party or NWP [Mahmoud ABAZA]; Tomorrow Party [Moussa Mustafa MOUSSA] 
				note: formation of political parties must be approved by the government; only parties with representation in elected bodies are listed 
				El Salvador
			Christian Democratic Party or PDC [Rodolfo PARKER]; Democratic Convergence or CD [Hector DADA HIREZI] (formerly United Democratic Center or CDU); Farabundo Marti National Liberation Front or FMLN [Medardo GONZALEZ]; National Conciliation Party or PCN [Ciro CRUZ ZEPEDA]; National Republican Alliance or ARENA [Rodrigo AVILA]; Popular Social Christian Party or PPSC [Rene AGUILUZ]; Revolutionary Democratic Front or FDR [Julio Cesar HERNANDEZ Carcamo] 
				Equatorial Guinea
			Convergence Party for Social Democracy or CPDS [Placido MICO Abogo]; Democratic Party for Equatorial Guinea or PDGE (ruling party) [Teodoro OBIANG NGUEMA MBASOGO]; Electoral Coalition or EC; Party for Progress of Equatorial Guinea or PPGE [Severo MOTO]; Popular Action of Equatorial Guinea or APGE [Avelino MOCACHE]; Popular Union or UP 
				Eritrea
			People's Front for Democracy and Justice or PFDJ [ISAIAS Afworki] (the only party recognized by the government); note - a National Assembly committee drafted a law on political parties in January 2001, but the full National Assembly has yet to debate or vote on it 
				Estonia
			Center Party of Estonia (Keskerakond) [Edgar SAVISAAR]; Estonian Greens (Rohelised) [Marek STRANDBERG]; Estonian People's Union (Rahvaliit) [Villu REILJAN]; Estonian Reform Party (Reformierakond) [Andrus ANSIP]; Social Democratic Party (formerly People's Party Moodukad or Moderates) [Ivari PADAR]; Union of Pro Patria and Res Publica (Isamaa je Res Publica Liit) [Mart LAAR] 
				Ethiopia
			Afar National Democratic Party or ANDP [Mohammed Kedir]; Benishangul Gumuz People's Democratic Unity Front or BGPDUF [Mulualem BESSE]; Coalition for Unity and Democratic Party or CUDP; Gurage Nationalities' Democratic Movement or GNDM; Oromo Federalist Democratic Movement or OFDM [BULCHA Demeksa]; Omoro People's Congress or OPC [IMERERA Gudina]; Somali People's Democratic Party or SPDP; United Ethiopian Democratic Forces or UEDF [BEYENE Petros] 
				European Union
			Confederal Group of the European United Left-Nordic Green Left or EUL/NGL [Francis WURTZ]; European People's Party-European Democrats or EPP-ED [Joseph DAUL]; Group of the Alliance of Liberals and Democrats for Europe or ALDE [Graham R. WATSON]; Group of Greens/European Free Alliance or Greens/EFA [Monica FRASSONI and Daniel Marc COHN-BENDIT]; Identity, Tradition, Sovereignty Group or ITS [Bruno GOLLNISCH]; Independence/Democracy Group or IND/DEM [Jens-Peter BONDE and Nigel FARAGE]; Socialist Group in the European Parliament or PES [Martin SCHULZ]; Union for Europe of the Nations Group or UEN [Brian CROWLEY and Cristiana MUSCARDINI] 
				Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas)
			none; all independents 
				Faroe Islands
			Center Party [Jenis A. RANA]; Independence Party [Kari P. HOJGAARD]; People's Party [Jorgen NICLASEN]; Republican Party [Hogni HOYDAL]; Social Democratic Party [Joannes EIDESGAARD]; Union Party [Kaj Leo JOHANNESEN] 
				Fiji
			Dodonu Ni Taukei Party or DNT [Fereti S. DEWA]; Fiji Democratic Party or FDP [Filipe BOLE] (a merger of the Christian Democrat Alliance or VLV [Poesci Waqalevu BUNE], Fijian Association Party or FAP, Fijian Political Party or SVT (primarily Fijian) [Sitiveni RABUKA], and New Labor Unity Party or NLUP [Ofa SWANN]); Fiji Labor Party or FLP [Mahendra CHAUDHRY]; General Voters Party or GVP (became part of United General Party); Girmit Heritage Party or GHP; Justice and Freedom Party or AIM; Lio 'On Famor Rotuma Party or LFR; National Federation Party or NFP (primarily Indian) [Pramond RAE]; Nationalist Vanua Takolavo Party or NVTLP [Saula TELAWA]; Party of National Unity or PANU [Ponipate LESAVUA]; Party of the Truth or POTT; United Fiji Party/Sogosogo Duavata ni Lewenivanua or SDL [Laisenia QARASE]; United Peoples Party or UPP [Millis Mick BEDDOES] 
				Finland
			Center Party or Kesk [Matti VANHANEN]; Christian Democrats or KD [Paivi RASANEN]; Green Party or VIHR [Tarja CRONBERG]; Left Alliance or VAS [Martti KORHONEN] (composed of People's Democratic League and Democratic Alternative); National Coalition (conservative) Party or Kok [Jyrki KATAINEN]; Social Democratic Party or SDP [Jutta URPILAINEN]; Swedish People's Party or SFP [Stefan WALLIN]; True Finns [Timo SOINI] 
				France
			Communist, Republican and Citizen or CRC; Democratic Movement or MoDem [Francois BAYROU] (previously Union for French Democracy or UDF); Democratic and Social European Rally or RDSE [Yvon COLLIN] (mainly Radical Republican and Socialist Parties, and PRG); French Communist Party or PCF [Marie-George BUFFET]; Greens [Cecile DUFLOT]; Left Radical Party or PRG [Jean-Michel BAYLET] (previously Radical Socialist Party or PRS and the Left Radical Movement or MRG); Movement for France or MPF [Philippe DE VILLIERS]; National Front or FN [Jean-Marie LE PEN]; New Center or NC [Herve MORIN]; Radical Party [Jean-Louis BORLOO]; Rally for France or RPF [Charles PASQUA]; Republican and Citizen Movement or MRC [Jean Pierre CHEVENEMENT and Georges SARRE]; Socialist Party or PS [Martine AUBRY]; Union Centrist-UDF or UC-UDF [Michel MERCIER]; Union for a Popular Movement or UMP [Xavier BERTRAND] 
				French Polynesia
			Alliance for a New Democracy or ADN [Nicole BOUTEAU and Philip SCHYLE](includes the parties The New Star and This Country is Yours); Independent Front for the Liberation of Polynesia (Tavini Huiraatira) [Oscar TEMARU]; New Fatherland Party (Ai'a Api) [Emile VERNAUDON]; Our Home alliance; People's Rally for the Republic of Polynesia or RPR (Tahoeraa Huiraatira) [Gaston FLOSSE]; Union for Democracy alliance or UPD [Oscar TEMARU] 
				Gabon
			Circle of Liberal Reformers or CLR [General Jean Boniface ASSELE]; Congress for Democracy and Justice or CDJ [Jules Aristide Bourdes OGOULIGUENDE]; Democratic and Republican Alliance or ADERE [Divungui-di-Ndinge DIDJOB]; Gabonese Democratic Party or PDG (former sole party) [Simplice Nguedet MANZELA]; Gabonese Party for Progress or PGP [Benoit Mouity NZAMBA]; Gabonese Union for Democracy and Development or UGDD [Zacherie MYBOTO]; National Rally of Woodcutters or RNB; National Rally of Woodcutters-Rally for Gabon or RNB-RPG (Bucherons) [Fr. Paul M'BA-ABESSOLE]; Party of Development and Social Solidarity or PDS [Seraphin Ndoat REMBOGO]; People's Unity Party or PUP [Louis Gaston MAYILA]; Social Democratic Party or PSD [Pierre Claver MAGANGA-MOUSSAVOU]; Union for Democracy and Social Integration or UDIS; Union of Gabonese Patriots or UPG [Pierre MAMBOUNDOU] 
				Gambia, The
			Alliance for Patriotic Reorientation and Construction or APRC (the ruling party) [Yahya A. J. J. JAMMEH]; Gambia People's Democratic Party or GPDP [Henry GOMEZ]; National Alliance for Democracy and Development or NADD [Halifa SALLAH]; National Convention Party or NCP [Sheriff DIBBA]; National Reconciliation Party or NRP [Hamat N. K. BAH]; People's Democratic Organization for Independence and Socialism or PDOIS [Halifa SALLAH]; United Democratic Party or UDP [Ousainou DARBOE] 
				Georgia
			Christian Democratic Movement [Giorgi TARGAMADZE]; Democratic Movement United Georgia [Nino BURJANADZE]; Georgian People's Front [Nodar NATADZE]; Georgian United Communist Party or UCPG [Panteleimon GIORGADZE]; Georgia's Way Party [Salome ZOURABICHVILI]; Greens [Giorgi GACHECHILADZE]; Industry Will Save Georgia (Industrialists) or IWSG [Georgi TOPADZE]; Labor Party [Shalva NATELASHVILI]; National Council-New Rights (bloc forming joint opposition) [Levan GACHECHILADZE]; National Democratic Party or NDP [Bachuki KARDAVA]; United National Movement [Mikheil SAAKASHVILI]; New Rights [David GAMKRELIDZE]; Republican Party [David USUPASHVILI]; Socialist Party or SPG [Irakli MINDELI]; Traditionalists [Akaki ASATIANI]; Union of National Forces-Conservatives [Koba DAVITASHVILI and Zviad DZIDZIGURI] 
				Germany
			Alliance '90/Greens [Claudia ROTH and Cem OEZDEMIR]; Christian Democratic Union or CDU [Angela MERKEL]; Christian Social Union or CSU [Horst SEEHOFER]; Free Democratic Party or FDP [Guido WESTERWELLE]; Left Party or Die Linke [Lothar BISKY and Oskar LAFONTAINE]; Social Democratic Party or SPD [Franz MUENTEFERING] 
				Ghana
			Convention People's Party or CPP [Ladi NYLANDER]; Democratic Freedom Party or DFP [Alhaji Abudu Rahman ISSAKAH]; Every Ghanaian Living Everywhere or EGLE; Great Consolidated Popular Party or GCPP [Dan LARTEY]; National Democratic Congress or NDC [Dr. Kwabena ADJEI]; New Patriotic Party or NPP [Peter MAC-MANU]; People's National Convention or PNC [Alhaji Amed RAMADAN]; Reform Party [Kyeretwie OPUKU]; United Renaissance Party or URP [Charles WAYO] 
				Gibraltar
			Gibraltar Liberal Party [Joseph GARCIA]; Gibraltar Social Democrats or GSD [Peter CARUANA]; Gibraltar Socialist Labor Party or GSLP [Joseph John BOSSANO] 
				Greece
			Coalition of the Radical Left (Syriza - formerly Synaspismos) [Alekos ALAVANOS]; Communist Party (Marxist-Leninist) [Gr. KONSTANTOPOULOS]; Communist Party of Greece or KKE [Aleka PAPARIGA]; Democratic Revival [Stelios PAPATHEMELIS]; Democratic Universal Hellas [Stergio KRIKELISI]; Ecologist Greens [Ioanna KONTOULI]; Fighting Socialist Party [Nikos KARGOPOULOS]; Greek Ecologists [Dimosthenis VERGIS]; Liberal Alliance [Foris PERIKOS]; Liberal Party [Manolis KALIGIANNIS]; Light-Truth-Justice [Konstantinos MELISSOURGOS]; New Democracy or ND (conservative) [Konstandinos KARAMANLIS]; Organization for the Reconstruction of the Communist Party of Greece [Ilias ZAFIROPOULOS]; Panhellenic Socialist Movement or PASOK [Yiorgos PAPANDREOU]; Popular Orthodox Rally or LAOS [Yeoryios KARATZAFERIS]; Radical Left Front [D. DESILLAS]; Regional Urban Development [Nikolaos KOLITIS]; Salvation Party Christian Democracy [Alkiviadis STOILIS]; Union of Centrists [Vassilis LEVENTIS]; United Anti-Capitalist Left [Konstantinos PAPDAKIS] 
				Greenland
			Atassut Party (Solidarity) [Finn KARLSEN] (a conservative party favoring continuing close relations with Denmark); Demokratiit [Per BERTHELSEN]; Inuit Ataqatigiit or IA (Eskimo Brotherhood) [Josef MOTZFELDT] (a leftist party favoring complete independence from Denmark rather than home rule); Kattusseqatigiit (Candidate List) (an independent right-of-center party with no official platform); Siumut (Forward Party) [Hans ENOKSEN] (a social democratic party advocating more distinct Greenlandic identity and greater autonomy from Denmark) 
				Grenada
			Grenada United Labor Party or GULP [Gloria Payne BANFIELD]; National Democratic Congress or NDC [Tillman THOMAS]; New National Party or NNP [Keith MITCHELL] 
				Guam
			Democratic Party [leader Michael PHILLIPS]; Republican Party [Philip J. FLORES] (controls the legislature) 
				Guatemala
			Center of Social Action or CASA [Eduardo SUGER]; Democracy Front or FRENTE [Alfonso CABRERA]; Democratic Union or UD [Manuel CONDE Orellana]; Encounter for Guatemala or EG [Nineth MONTENGRO]; Grand National Alliance or GANA [Alfredo VILLA]; Guatemalan National Revolutionary Unity or URNG [Hector NUILA]; Guatemalan Republican Front or FRG [Efrain RIOS Montt]; National Advancement Party or PAN [Juan Guillermo GUTIERREZ]; National Unity for Hope or UNE [Juan Jose ALFARO Lemus]; Nationalist Change Union or UCN [Mario ESTRADA]; Patriot Party or PP [Ret. Gen. Otto PEREZ Molina]; Unionista Party or PU [Fritz GARCIA-GALLONT] 
				Guernsey
			none; all independents 
				Guinea
			National Union for Progress or UPN [Mamadou Bhoye BARRY]; Party for Unity and Progress or PUP (the governing party) [Sekou KONATE]; People's Party of Guinea or PPG [Charles Pascal TOLNO]; Rally for the Guinean People or RPG [Alpha CONDE]; Union of Democratic Forces of Guinea or UFDG [Cellou Dalein DIALLO]; Union of Republican Forces or UFR [Sidya TOURE]; Union for Progress of Guinea or UPG [Jean-Marie DORE, secretary-general]; Union for Progress and Renewal or UPR [Ousmane BAH] 
				Guinea-Bissau
			African Party for the Independence of Guinea-Bissau and Cape Verde or PAIGC [Carlos GOMES Junior]; Party for Social Renewal or PRS [Kumba YALA]; Democratic Alliance or AD [Victor MANDINGA]; Democratic Social Front or FDS [Rafael BARBOSA]; Electoral Union or UE [Joaquim BALDE]; Guinea-Bissau Civic Forum/Social Democracy or FCGSD [Antonieta Rosa GOMES]; Guinea-Bissau Democratic Party or PDG; Guinea-Bissau Socialist Democratic Party or PDSG [Serifo BALDE]; Labor and Solidarity Party or PST [Iancuba INDJAI]; New Democracy Party or PND; Party for Democratic Convergence or PCD [Victor MANDINGA]; Party for Renewal and Progress or PRP; Progress Party or PP; Republican Party for Independence and Development or PRID [Aristides GOMES]; Union for Change or UM [Amine SAAD]; Union of Guinean Patriots or UPG [Francisca VAZ]; United Platform or UP (coalition formed by PCD, FDS, FLING, and RGB-MB); United Popular Alliance or APU; United Social Democratic Party or PUSD [Frnacisco FADUL] 
				Guyana
			Alliance for Change or AFC [Raphael TROTMAN and Khemraj RAMJATTAN]; Guyana Action Party or GAP [Paul HARDY]; Justice for All Party [C.N. SHARMA]; People's National Congress/Reform or PNC/R [Robert Herman Orlando CORBIN]; People's Progressive Party/Civic or PPP/C [Bharrat JAGDEO]; Rise, Organize, and Rebuild or ROAR [Ravi DEV]; The United Force or TUF [Manzoor NADIR]; The Unity Party [Joey JAGAN]; Vision Guyana [Peter RAMSAROOP]; Working People's Alliance or WPA [Rupert ROOPNARAINE] 
				Haiti
			Artibonite in Action or LAAA [Youri LATORTUE]; Assembly of Progressive National Democrats or RDNP [Leslie MANIGAT]; Convention for Democratic Unity or KID [Evans PAUL]; Cooperative Action to Build Haiti or KONBA [Evans LESCOUFALIR]; Democratic Alliance or ALYANS [Evans PAUL] (coalition composed of KID and PPRH); Effort and Solidarity to Create an Alternative for the People or ESKAMP [Joseph JASME]; For Us All or PONT [Jean-Marie CHERESTAL]; Front for Hope or L'ESPWA [Rene PREVAL] (alliance of ESKAMP, PLB, and grass-roots organizations Grand-Anse Resistance Committee, the Central Plateau Peasants' Group, and Kombit Sudest); Haitian Christian Democratic Party or PDCH [Osner FEVRY and Marie-Denise CLAUDE]; Haitian Democratic and Reform Movement or MODEREH [Dany TOUSSAINT and Pierre Soncon PRINCE]; Heads Together or Tet-Ansanm [Dr. Gerard BLOT]; Independent Movement for National Reconciliation or MIRN [Luc FLEURINORD]; Justice for Peace and National Development or JPDN [Rigaud DUPLAN]; Fanmi Lavalas or FL [Rudy HERIVEAUX]; Liberal Party of Haiti or PLH [Gehy MICHEL]; Merging of Haitian Social Democratic Parties or FUSION or FPSDH [Serge GILLES] (coalition of Ayiti Capable, Haitian National Revolutionary Party, and National Congress of Democratic Movements); Mobilization for Haiti's Development or MPH [Samir MOURRA]; Mobilization for National Development or MDN [Hubert de RONCERAY]; Movement for National Reconstruction or MRN [Jean Henold BUTEAU]; Movement for the Installation of Democracy in Haiti or MIDH [Marc BAZIN]; National Christian Union for the Reconstruction of Haiti or UNCRH [Marie Claude GERMAIN]; National Front for the Reconstruction of Haiti or FRN [Guy PHILIPPE]; New Christian Movement for a New Haiti or MOCHRENA [Luc MESADIEU]; Open the Gate Party or PLB [Anes LUBIN]; Popular Party for the Renewal of Haiti or PPRH [Claude ROMAIN]; Struggling People's Organization or OPL [Edgard LEBLANC]; Union of Nationalist and Progressive Haitians or UNITE [Edouard FRANCISQUE] 
				Holy See (Vatican City)
			none 
				Honduras
			Christian Democratic Party or PDC [Felicito AVILA]; Democratic Unification Party or PUD [Cesar HAM]; Liberal Party or PL [Patricia RODAS]; National Innovation and Unity Party or PINU [Jorge AQUILAR Paredes]; National Party of Honduras or PN [Porfirio LOBO] 
				Hong Kong
			Association for Democracy and People's Livelihood or ADPL [Frederick FUNG Kin-kee]; Civic Party [KUAN Hsin-chi]; Democratic Alliance for the Betterment and Progress of Hong Kong or DAB [TAM Yiu Cheng]; Democratic Party [Albert HO Chun-yan]; League of Social Democrats [Raymond WONG Yuk-man]; Liberal Party [Miriam LAU Kin-yee] 
				note: political blocs include: pro-democracy - ADPL, Civic Party; Democratic Party, League of Social Democrats; pro-Beijing - DAB, Liberal Party, The Professional Forum (an informal group of three generally pro-government and pro-business LegCo members from functional constituencies and one independent elected from a geographic constituency); there is no political party ordinance, so there are no registered political parties; politically active groups register as societies or companies 
				Hungary
			Alliance of Free Democrats or SzDSz [Gabor FODOR]; Christian Democratic People's Party or KDNP [Zsolt SEMJEN]; Hungarian Civic Alliance or Fidesz [Viktor ORBAN, chairman]; Hungarian Democratic Forum or MDF [Ibolya DAVID]; Hungarian Socialist Party or MSzP [Ferenc GYURCSANY] 
				Iceland
			Independence Party or IP [Geir H. HAARDE]; Left-Green Movement or LGM [Steingrimur SIGFUSSON]; Liberal Party or LP [Gudjon KRISTJANSSON]; Progressive Party or PP [Sigmundur David GUNNLAUGSSON; Social Democratic Alliance or SDA [Ingibjorg Solrun GISLADOTTIR] (includes People's Alliance or PA, Social Democratic Party or SDP, Women's List) 
				India
			Bahujan Samaj Party or BSP [MAYAWATI]; Bharatiya Janata Party or BJP [Rajnath SINGH]; Biju Janata Dal or BJD [Naveen PATNAIK]; Communist Party of India or CPI [Ardhendu Bhushan BARDHAN]; Communist Party of India-Marxist or CPI-M [Prakash KARAT]; Dravida Munnetra Kazagham or DMK [M. KARUNANIDHI]; Indian National Congress or INC [Sonia GANDHI]; Janata Dal (United) or JD(U) [Sharad YADAV]; Jharkhand Mukti Morcha or JMM [Shibu SOREN]; Left Front (an alliance of Indian leftist parties); Lok Jan Shakti Party or LJSP [Ram Vilas PASWAN]; Nationalist Congress Party or NCP [Sharad PAWAR]; Pattali Makkal Katchi or PMK [S. RAMADOSS]; Rashtriya Janata Dal or RJD [Laloo Prasad YADAV]; Samajwadi Party or SP [Mulayam Singh YADAV]; Shiromani Akali Dal or SAD [Parkash Singh BADAL]; Shiv Sena or SS [Bal THACKERAY]; note - India has dozens of national and regional political parties; only parties or coalitions with four or more seats in the People's Assembly are listed 
				Indonesia
			Crescent Moon and Star Party or PBB [MS KABAN]; Democratic Party or PD [Hadi UTOMO]; Functional Groups Party or Golkar [Yusuf KALLA]; Indonesia Democratic Party-Struggle or PDI-P [MEGAWATI Sukarnoputri]; National Awakening Party or PKB [Muhaiman ISKANDAR]; National Mandate Party or PAN [Sutrisno BACHIR]; Prosperous Justice Party or PKS [Tifatul SEMBIRING]; United Development Party or PPP [Suryadharma ALI] 
				Iran
			formal political parties are a relatively new phenomenon in Iran and most conservatives still prefer to work through political pressure groups rather than parties; often political parties or coalitions are formed prior to elections and disbanded soon thereafter; a loose pro-reform coalition called the 2nd Khordad Front, which includes political parties as well as less formal groups and organizations, achieved considerable success in elections for the sixth Majles in early 2000; groups in the coalition included the Islamic Iran Participation Front (IIPF), Executives of Construction Party (Kargozaran), Solidarity Party, Islamic Labor Party, Mardom Salari, Mojahedin of the Islamic Revolution Organization (MIRO), and Militant Clerics Society (Ruhaniyun); the coalition participated in the seventh Majles elections in early 2004; following his defeat in the 2005 presidential elections, former MCS Secretary General and sixth Majles Speaker Mehdi KARUBI formed the National Trust Party; a new conservative group, Islamic Iran Developers Coalition (Abadgaran), took a leading position in the new Majles after winning a majority of the seats in February 2004;; following the 2004 Majles elections, traditional and hardline conservatives have attempted to close ranks under the United Front of Principlists and the Broad Popular Coalition of Principlists; several reformist groups, such as the Islamic Revolution, came together as a reformist coalition in advance of the 2008 Majles electons; the IIPF has repeatedly complained that the overwhelming majority of its candidates have been unfairly disqualified from the 2008 elections 
				Iraq
			Assyrian Democratic Movement [Yunadim KANNA]; Badr Organization [Hadi al-AMIRI]; Constitutional Monarchy Movement or CMM [Sharif Ali Bin al-HUSAYN]; Da'wa al-Islamiya Party [Nuri al-MALIKI]; General Conference of Iraqi People [Adnan al-DULAYMI]; Independent Iraqi Alliance or IIA [Falah al-NAQIB]; Iraqi Communist Party [Hamid MAJID]; Iraqi Front for National Dialogue [Salih al-MUTLAQ]; Iraqi Hizballah [Karim Mahmud al-MUHAMMADAWI]; Iraqi Independent Democrats or IID [Adnan PACHACHI, Mahdi al-HAFIZ]; Iraqi Islamic Party or IIP [Tariq al-HASHIMI]; Iraqi National Accord or INA [Ayad ALLAWI]; Iraqi National Congress or INC [Ahmad CHALABI]; Iraqi National Council for Dialogue or INCD [Khalaf Ulayan al-Khalifawi al-DULAYMI]; Iraqi National Unity Movement or INUM [Ahmad al-KUBAYSI]; Islamic Action Organization or IAO [Ayatollah Muhammad al-MUDARRISI]; Islamic Supreme Council of Iraq or ISCI [Abd al-Aziz al-HAKIM]; Jama'at al Fadilah or JAF [Muhammad Ali al-YAQUBI]; Kurdistan Democratic Party or KDP [Masud BARZANI]; Kurdistan Islamic Union [Salah ad-Din Muhammad BAHA al-DIN]; Patriotic Union of Kurdistan or PUK [Jalal TALABANI]; Sadrist Trend [Muqtada al-SADR] (not an organized political party, but it fields independent candidates affiliated with Muqtada al-SADR); Sahawa al-Iraq [Ahmad al-RISHAWI] 
				note: the Kurdistan Alliance, Iraqi National List, Tawafuq Front, Iraqi Front for National Dialogue, and Unified Iraqi Alliance were only electoral slates consisting of the representatives from the various Iraqi political parties 
				Ireland
			Fianna Fail [Brian COWEN]; Fine Gael [Enda KENNY]; Green Party [John GORMLEY]; Labor Party [Eamon GILMORE]; Progressive Democrats [Ciaran CANNON] (disbanding); Sinn Fein [Gerry ADAMS]; Socialist Party [Joe HIGGINS]; The Workers' Party [Mick FINNEGAN] 
				Isle of Man
			Alliance for Progressive Government; Liberal Vannin Party [Peter KARRAN]; Man Labor Party; Man Nationalist Party (Mec Vannin) [Bernard MOFFATT] 
				note: most members sit as independents 
				Israel
			Balad [Azmi BISHARA]; Democratic Front for Peace and Equality (HADASH) [Muhammad BARAKEH]; Kadima [Tzipora "Tzipi" LIVNI]; Labor Party [Ehud BARAK]; Likud [Binyamin NETANYAHU]; National Union [Yaakov KATZ]; The Jewish Home (HaBayit HaYehudi) [Daniel HERSCHKOWITZ]; SHAS [Eliyahu YISHAI]; The New Movement-Meretz [Haim ORON]; United Arab List-Ta'al [Ibrahim SARSUR]; United Torah Judaism or UTJ [Yaakov LITZMAN]; Yisrael Beiteinu [Avigdor LIEBERMAN] 
				Italy
				Silvio BERLUSCONI coalition: People of Freedom or PdL [Silvio BERLUSCONI]; Lega Nord or LN [Umberto BOSSI]; Movement for Autonomy or MpA [Raffaele LOMBARDO] 
				Walter VELTRONI coalition: Democratic Party or PD [Walter VELTRONI]; Italy of Values or IdV [Antonio DI PIETRO] 
				other non-allied parties: Union of the Center or UdC [Savino PEZZOTTA] 
				Jamaica
			Jamaica Labor Party or JLP [Bruce GOLDING]; People's National Party or PNP [Portia SIMPSON-MILLER]; National Democratic Movement or NDM [Michael WILLIAMS] 
				Japan
			Democratic Party of Japan or DPJ [Ichiro OZAWA]; Japan Communist Party or JCP [Kazuo SHII]; Komeito [Akihiro OTA]; Liberal Democratic Party or LDP [Taro ASO]; Social Democratic Party or SDP [Mizuho FUKUSHIMA] 
				Jersey
			two declared parties: Centre Party; Jersey Democratic Alliance 
				note: all senators and deputies elected in 2005 were independents 
				Jordan
			Arab Ba'ath Socialist Party [Fuad DABBOUR]; Ba'ath Arab Progressive Party [Tayseer al-HAMSI]; Call Party [Mohammed Abu BAKR]; Democratic People's Party [Ahmad Yusuf 'ALIYA]; Democratic Popular Unity Party [Sa'ed DIAB]; Islamic Action Front [Zaki Beni-IRSHAID]; Islamic Center Party [Marwan al-FA'OURI; Jordanian Communist Party [Munir HAMARNEH]; Jordanian National Party [Mona Abu BAKR]; Jordanian United Front [Amjad al-MAJALI]; Life Party [Thaher 'AMROU]; Message Party [Hazem QASHOU]; National Constitution Party [Ahmed al-SHUNAQ]; National Movement for Direct Democracy [Mohammed al-QAQ]; 
				Kazakhstan
			Adilet (Justice) [Maksut NARIKBAYEV, Zeynulla ALSHIMBAYEV, Serik ABDRAHMANOV, Bakhytbek AKHMETZHAN, Yerkin ONGARBAYEV, Tolegan SYDYKOV] (formerly Democratic Party of Kazakhstan); Agrarian and Industrial Union of Workers Block or AIST (Agrarian Party and Civic Party); Ak Zhol Party (Bright Path) [Alikhan BAIMENOV]; Alga [Vladimir KOZLOV] (unregistered); Auyl (Village) [Gani KALIYEV]; Azat Party (formerly True Ak Zhol Party) [Bolat ABILOV]; Communist Party of Kazakhstan or KPK [Serikbolsyn ABDILDIN]; Communist People's Party of Kazakhstan [Vladislav KOSAREV]; National Social Democratic Party (NSDP)[Zharmakhan TUYAKBAY]; Nur-Otan [Bakhytzhan ZHUMAGULOV] (the Agrarian, Asar, and Civic parties merged with Otan); Patriots' Party [Gani KASYMOV]; Rukhaniyat (Spirituality) [Altynshash ZHAGANOVA] 
				Kenya
			Forum for the Restoration of Democracy-Kenya or FORD-Kenya [Musikari KOMBO]; Forum for the Restoration of Democracy-People or FORD-People [Reuben OYONDI]; Kenya African National Union or KANU [Uhuru KENYATTA]; National Rainbow Coalition-Kenya or NARC-Kenya [Martha KARUA]; Orange Democratic Movement or ODM [Raila ODINGA]; Orange Democratic Movement-Kenya or ODM-K [Kalonzo MUSYOKA]; Party of National Unity or PNU [Mwai KIBAKI]; Shirikisho Party of Kenya or SPK [Chirau Ali MWAKWERE] 
				Kiribati
			Boutokaan Te Koaua Party or BTK [Taberannang TIMEON]; Maneaban Te Mauri Party or MTM [Teburoro TITO]; Maurin Kiribati Pati or MKP; National Progressive Party or NPP [Dr. Harry TONG] 
				note: there is no tradition of formally organized political parties in Kiribati; they more closely resemble factions or interest groups because they have no party headquarters, formal platforms, or party structures 
				Korea, North
			major party - Korean Workers' Party or KWP [KIM Jong Il]; minor parties - Chondoist Chongu Party [RYU Mi Yong] (under KWP control), Social Democratic Party [KIM Yong Dae] (under KWP control) 
				Korea, South
			Democratic Party or DP [CHUNG Sye-kyun] (formerly the United Democratic Party or UDP); Democratic Labor Party or DLP [KANG Ki-kabi]; Grand National Party or GNP [KANG Jae-sup]; Liberty Forward Party or LFP [LEE Hoi-chang]; Pro-Park Alliance or PPA [SUH Choung-won]; Renewal Korea Party or RKP [MOON Kook-hyun] 
				Kosovo
			Albanian Christian Democratic Party of Kosovo or PShDK [Tome MARKU]; Alliance for the Future of Kosovo or AAK [Ramush HARADINAJ]; Alliance for a New Kosovo or AKR [Behgjet PACOLLI]; Alliance of Independent Social Democrats of Kosovo and Metohija or SDSKIM [Slavisa PETKOVIC]; Autonomous Liberal Party of SLS [Slobodan PETROVIC]; Bosniak Vakat Coalition [Dzezair MURATI]; Citizens' Initiative of Gora or GIG [Murselj HALJILJI]; Council of Independent Social Democrats of Kosovo or SNSDKIM [Ljubisa ZIVIC]; Democratic Action Party or SDA [Numan BALIC]; Democratic Ashkali Party of Kosovo or PDAK; Democratic League of Dardania or LDD [Nexhat DACI]; Democratic League of Kosovo or LDK [Fatmir SEJDIU]; Democratic Party of Ashkali of Kosovo or PDAK [Sabit RAHMANI]; Democratic Party of Kosovo or PDK [Hashim THACI]; Democratic Party Vatan [Sadik IDRIZI]; Democratic Union of Ashkalis or BDA [Sabit RRAHMANI]; Justice Party or PD [Sylejman QERKEZI]; Kosovo Democratic Turkish Party of KDTP [Mahir YAGCILAR]; Liberal Party of Kosovo or PLK [Gjergi DEDAJ]; New Democratic Initiative of Kosovo or IRDK [Xhevdet NEZIRAJ]; New Democratic Party or ND [Branislav GRBIC]; New Kosovo Alliance or AKR [Behxhet PACOLLI]; Popular Movement of Kosovo or LPK [Emrush XHEMAJLI]; Reform Party Ora [Teuta SAHATCIA]; Serb National Party or SNS [Mihailo SCEPANOVIC]; Serbian Kosovo and Metohija Party or SKMS [Dragisa MIRIC]; Serbian List for Kosovo and Metohija [Oliver IVANOVIC]; Social Democratic Party of Kosovo or PSDK [Agim CEKU]; United Roma Party of Kosovo or PREBK [Haxhi Zylfi MERXHA] 
				Kuwait
			none; formation of political parties is in practice illegal but is not forbidden by law 
				Kyrgyzstan
			Ak Jol (Good Luck) [Avtandil ARABAEV, Elmira IBRAIMOVA, Vladimir NIFADYEV, co-chairs]; Ak Shumkar (Gerfalcon) [Temir SARIYEV]; Ar-Namys (Dignity) Party [Emil ALIEV]; Asaba (Banner National Revival Party) [Sovetbek JAMALDINOV]]; Ata-Meken (Fatherland) [Omurbek TEKEBAEV]; Democratic Movement of Kyrgyzstan or DDK [Viktor TCHETRNOMORETS]; Erkindik (Freedom) Party [Topchubek TURGUNALIEV]; For Justice Movement [Alikbek JEKSHENKULOV]; Green Party [Erkin BULEKBAEV]; Moya Strana (My Country Party of Action) [Medet SADYRKULOV]; Party of Communists of Kyrgyzstan or KCP [Iskhak MASALIEV]; Party of Justice and Progress [Muratbek IMANALIEV]; Party of Peasants [Esengul ISAKOV]; Republican Party of Labor and Unity [Tabaldy OROZALIEV]; Revolutionary Committee [Azimbek BEKNAZAROV]; Sanjira (Tree of Life) [Ednan KARABAEV]; Social Democratic Party of Kyrgyzstan [Almaz ATAMBAEV]; Svoboda Vybora (Free Choice) Party [Vyacheslav LISOVSKIY]; Turan Party [Kanybek IMANALIYEV]; Uluu Birimdik (Solidarity) Party [Emilbek KAPTAGAEV]; Union of Democratic Forces [Osmon ARTYKBAEV]; United Kyrgyzstan [Amangeldi MURALIEV] 
				Laos
			Lao People's Revolutionary Party or LPRP [CHOUMMALI Saignason]; other parties proscribed 
				Latvia
			Civic Union [Sandra KALNIETE, Girts Valdis KRISTOVSKIS]; First Party of Latvia/Latvia's Way or LPP/LC [Ainars SLESERS, Ivars GODMANIS]; For Human Rights in a United Latvia or PCTVL [Jakovs PLINERS, Tatjana ZDANOKA]; For the Fatherland and Freedom/Latvian National Independence Movement or TB/LNNK [Roberts ZILE, Maris GRINBLATS]; Harmony Center or SC [Nils USAKOVS, Janis URBANOVICS]; New Era Party or JL [Solvita ABOLTINA, Dzintars ZAKIS]; People's Party or TP [Mareks SEGLINS]; Society for Different Politics or SCP [Aigars STOKENBERGS; Artis PABRIKS]; The Union of Latvian Greens and Farmers Party or ZZS [Augusts BRIGMANIS] 
				Lebanon
				14 March Coalition: Democratic Gathering Bloc [Walid JUNBLATT, leader of Progressive Socialist Party]; Democratic Left [Ilyas ATALLAH]; Democratic Renewal Movement [Nassib LAHUD]; Future Movement Bloc [Sa'ad HARIRI]; Kataeb Party [Amine GEMAYEL]; Lebanese Forces [Samir JA'JA]; Tripoli Independent Bloc 
				8 March Coalition: Development and Resistance Bloc [Nabih BERRI, leader of Amal Movement]; Free Patriotic Movement [Michel AWN]; Loyalty to the Resistance Bloc [Mohammad RA'AD] (includes Hizballah Party [Hassan NASRALLAH]); Nasserite Popular Movement [Ussama SAAD]; Popular Bloc [Elias SKAFF]; Syrian Ba'th Party [Sayez SHUKR]; Syrian Social Nationalist Party [Ali QANSO] 
				Independent: Metn Bloc [Michel MURR]; Tashnaq 
				Lesotho
			Alliance of Congress Parties or ACP including the Lesotho People's Congress or LCP [Kelebone MAOPE], the Basotholand African Congress or BAC [Khauhelo RALITAPOLE], and a faction of the Basotho Congress Party or BCP [Ntsukunyane MPHANYA]; All Basotho Convention or ABC [Thomas THABANE]; Basotho Batho Democratic Party or BBDP; Basotho Congress Party or BCP; Basotho Democratic National Party or BDNP [Thabang NYEOE]; Basotho National Party or BNP [Maj. Gen. Justin Metsing LEKHANYA]; Basotholand African National Congress or BANC; Christian Democratic Party or CDP [Enerst RAMOKOENA]; Lesotho Congress for Democracy or LCD (the governing party) [Pakalitha MOSISILI]; Lesotho Workers Party or LWP [Macaefa BILLY]; National Independent Party or NIP [Anthony MANYELI] 
				Liberia
			Alliance for Peace and Democracy or APD [Togba-na TIPOTEH]; Coalition for the Transformation of Liberia or COTOL [H. Varney SHERMAN]; Congress for Democratic Change or CDC [George WEAH]; Liberty Party or LP [Charles BRUMSKINE]; National Patriotic Party or NPP [Roland MASSAQUOI]; Unity Party or UP [Ellen JOHNSON SIRLEAF] 
				Libya
			none 
				Liechtenstein
			Vaterlaendische Union (Fatherland Union) or VU [Adolf HEEB]; Fortschrittliche Buergerpartei (Progressive Citizens' Party) or FBP [Marcus VOGT]; Die Freie Liste (The Free List) or FL [Claudia HEEB-FLECK and Egon MATT] 
				Lithuania
			Civil Democracy Party or PDP [Viktor MUNTIANAS]; Coalition of Labor Party and Youth or KDP+J [Viktor USPASKICH]; Electoral Action of Lithuanian Poles or LLRA [Valdemar TOMASZEVSKI]; Homeland Union - Lithuanian Christian Democrats or TS-LKD [Andrius KUBILIUS]; Lithuanian Peasant Popular Union or LVLS [Kazimiera PRUNSKIENE]; Liberal and Center Union or LCS [Arturas ZUOKAS]; Liberal Movement or LRLS [Eligijus MASIULIS]; National Revival or TPP [Arunas VALINSKAS]; New Union (Social Liberal) or NS [Arturas PAULAUSKAS]; Order and Justice Party or TT [Rolandas PAKSAS]; Social Democratic Party or LSDP [Gediminas KIRKILAS]; Young Lithuania and New Nationalists [Stanislovas BUSKEVICIUS] 
				Luxembourg
			Alternative Democratic Reform Party or ADR [Robert MEHLEN]; Christian Social People's Party or CSV [Francois BILTGEN]; Democratic Party or DP [Claude MEISCH]; Green Party [Francois BAUSCH]; Luxembourg Socialist Workers' Party or LSAP [Alex BODRY]; dei Lenk/la Gauche (the Left); other minor parties 
				Macau
			New Hope [Jose Maria Pereira COUTINHO]; Development Union [KWAN Tsui-hang]; Macau Development Alliance [Angela LEONG On-kei]; Macau United Citizens' Association [CHAN Meng-kam]; New Democratic Macau Association [Antonio NG Kuok-cheong]; Union for Promoting Progress [LEONG Heng-teng] 
				note: there is no political party ordinance, so there are no registered political parties; politically active groups register as societies or companies 
				Macedonia
			Democratic Alliance [Pavle TRAJANOV]; Democratic League of Bosniaks [Rafet MUMINOVIC]; Democratic Party of Albanians or PDSh/DPA [Menduh THACI]; Democratic Party of Serbs [Ivan STOILJKOVIC]; Democratic Party of Turks [Kenan HASIPI]; Democratic Renewal of Macedonia [Liljana POPOVSKA]; Democratic Union of Albanians or BDSh [Bardyl MAHMUTI]; Democratic Union of Vlachs for Macedonia [Mitko KOSTOV]; Democratic Union for Integration or BDI/DUI [Ali AHMETI]; For a Better Macedonia coalition [Nikola GRUEVSKI] (includes VMRO-DPMNE, SP, Democratic Union, Democratic Renewal of Macedonia, Democratic Party of Turks, Democratic Party of Serbs, SR, and smaller parties); Internal Macedonian Revolutionary Organization-Democratic Party for Macedonian National Unity or VMRO-DPMNE [Nikola GRUEVSKI]; League for Democracy [Gjorgi MARJANOVIC]; Liberal Democratic Party or LDP [Jovan MANSIEVSKI]; Liberal Party [Stojan ANDOV]; National Alternative [Harun ALIU]; National Democratic Union or BDK [Hysni SHAQIR]; New Democracy of DR/ND [Imer SELMANI]; New Social Democratic Party or NSDP [Tito PETKOVSKI]; Party for Democratic Prosperity or PPD/PDP [Sefedin HARUNI]; Party for European Future or PEI [Fijat CANOSKI]; Party of Free Democrats or PSD [Ljubco JORDANOVSKI]; Social Democratic Alliance of Macedonia or SDSM [Zoran ZAEV]; Socialist Party of Macedonia or SP [Ljubisav IVANOV-ZINGO]; Sun-Coalition for Europe [Radmila SKERINSKA] (includes SDSM, NSDP, LDP, Liberal Party and smaller parties); Union of Romas or SR [Shaban SALIU]; United Party for Emancipation or OPE [Nezdet MUSTAFA] 
				Madagascar
			Association for the Rebirth of Madagascar or AREMA [Pierrot RAJAONARIVELO]; Democratic Party for Union in Madagascar or PSDUM [Jean LAHINIRIKO]; Economic Liberalism and Democratic Action for National Recovery or LEADER/Fanilo [Herizo RAZAFIMAHALEO]; Fihaonana Party or FP [Guy-Willy RAZANAMASY]; I Love Madagascar or TIM [Marc RAVALOMANANA]; Renewal of the Social Democratic Party or RPSD [Evariste MARSON] 
				Malawi
			Alliance for Democracy or AFORD [Tom CHIHANA]; Congress of Democrats or COPE [Ralph KASAMBARA]; Congress for National Unity or CONU [Daniel MUKHUMBWE]; Democratic Progressive Party or DPP [Bingu wa MUTHARIKA]; Malawi Congress Party or MCP [John TEMBO]; Malawi Democratic Party or MDP [Kampelo KALUA]; Malawi Forum for Unity and Development or MAFUNDE [George MNESA]; Malawi People's Party [Uladi MUSSA]; Mgwirizano Coalition or MC [Gwandaguluwe CHAKUAMBA] (coalition of MAFUNDE, MDP, MGODE, NUP, PETRA, PPM, RP); Movement for Genuine Democratic Change or MGODE [Sam Kandodo BANDA]; National Democratic Alliance or NDA [Brown MPINGANJIRA]; National Unity Party or NUP [Harry CHIUME]; New Rainbow Coalition Party [Beatrice MWALE]; New Republican Party [Gwanda CHAKUWAMBA]; People's Progressive Movement or PPM [Aleke BANDA]; People's Transformation Movement or PETRA [Kamuzu CHIBAMBO]; Republican Party or RP [Gwandaguluwe CHAKUAMBA]; United Democratic Front or UDF [Bakili MULUZI]; United Democratic Party [Kenedy KALAMBO] 
				Malaysia
				National Front (Barisan Nasional) or BN (ruling coalition) consists of the following parties: Gerakan Rakyat Malaysia Party or PGRM [KOH Tsu Koon]; Liberal Democratic Party (Parti Liberal Demokratik - Sabah) or LDP [LIEW Vui Keong]; Malaysian Chinese Association (Persatuan China Malaysia) or MCA [ONG Tee Keat]; Malaysian Indian Congress (Kongres India Malaysia) or MIC [S. Samy VELLU]; Parti Bersatu Rakyat Sabah or PBRS [Joseph KURUP]; Parti Bersatu Sabah or PBS [Joseph PAIRIN Kitingan]; Parti Pesaka Bumiputera Bersatu or PBB [Abdul TAIB Mahmud]; Parti Rakyat Sarawak or PRS [James MASING]; Sarawak United People's Party (Parti Bersatu Rakyat Sarawak) or SUPP [George CHAN Hong Nam]; United Malays National Organization or UMNO [ABDULLAH bin Ahmad Badawi]; United Pasokmomogun Kadazandusun Murut Organization (Pertubuhan Pasko Momogun Kadazan Dusun Bersatu) or UPKO [Bernard DOMPOK]; People's Progressive Party (Parti Progresif Penduduk Malaysia) or PPP [M.Kayveas]; Sarawak Progressive Democratic Party or SPDP [William MAWAN]) 
				People's Alliance (Pakatan Rakyat) or PR (opposition coalition) consists of the following parties: Democratic Action Party (Parti Tindakan Demokratik) or DAP [KARPAL Singh]; Islamic Party of Malaysia (Parti Islam se Malaysia) or PAS [Abdul HADI Awang]; People's Justice Party (Parti Keadilan Rakyat) or PKR [WAN AZIZAH Wan Ismail]; Sarawak National Party or SNAP [Edwin DUNDANG] 
				independent party: Sabah Progressive Party (Parti Progresif Saban) or SAPP [YONG Teck Lee] 
				Maldives
			Adhaalath (Justice) Party or AP [Abdul Majeed Abdul BARI]; Dhivehi Quamee Party or DQP [Hassan SAEED]; Dhivehi Rayyithunge Party (Maldivian People's Party) or DRP [Maumoon Abdul GAYOOM]; Islamic Democratic Party or IDP [Omar NASEER]; Maldivian Democratic Party or MDP [Mohamed NASHEED]; Republican (Jumhooree) Party [Gasim IBRAHIM]; Social Liberal Party or SLP [Ibrahim ISMAIL] 
				Mali
			Alliance for Democratic Change (political group comprised mainly of Tuareg from Mali's northern region); African Solidarity for Democracy and Independence or SADI [Oumar MARIKO, secretary general]; Alliance for Democracy and Progress or ADP (a coalition of political parties including ADEMA and URD formed in December 2006 to support the presidential candidacy of Amadou TOURE); Alliance for Democracy or ADEMA [Diounconda TRAORE]; Convergence 2007 [Soumeylou Boubeye MAIGA]; Front for Democracy and the Republic or FDR (a coalition of political parties including RPM and PARENA formed to oppose the presidential candidacy of Amadou TOURE); National Congress for Democratic Initiative or CNID [Mountaga TALL]; Party for Democracy and Progress or PDP [Me Idrissa TRAORE]; Party for National Renewal or PARENA [Tiebile DRAME]; Patriotic Movement for Renewal or MPR [Choguel MAIGA]; Rally for Democracy and Labor or RDT; Rally for Mali or RPM [Ibrahim Boubacar KEITA]; Sudanese Union/African Democratic Rally or US/RDA [Mamadou Bamou TOURE]; Union for Democracy and Development or UDD [Moussa Balla COULIBALY]; Union for Republic and Democracy or URD [Soumaila CISSE] 
				Malta
			Alternativa Demokratika/Alliance for Social Justice or AD [Arnold CASSOLA]; Azzjoni Nazzjonaili or AN [Josi MUSCAT]; Malta Labor Party or MLP [Dr. Joseph MUSCAT]; Nationalist Party or PN [Lawrence GONZI] 
				Marshall Islands
			traditionally there have been no formally organized political parties; what has existed more closely resembles factions or interest groups because they do not have party headquarters, formal platforms, or party structures; the following two "groupings" have competed in legislative balloting in recent years - Aelon Kein Ad Party [Michael KABUA] and United Democratic Party or UDP [Litokwa TOMEING] 
				Mauritania
			Alternative or El-Badil [Mohamed Yahdhi Ould MOCTAR HACEN]; Centrist Reformists (independent moderate Islamists); Coalition for Forces for Democratic Change or CFCD (coalition of political parties including APP, Centrist Reformists (independent moderate Islamists), HATEM-PMUC, PUDS, RD, RFD, UFP); Democratic and Social Republican Party or PRDS; Democratic Renewal or RD [Moustapha Ould ABDEIDARRAHMANE]; Mauritanian Party for Unity and Change or HATEM-PMUC [Saleh Ould HANENA]; Mithaq (coalition of independents and parties associated with the former regime including Alternative or El-Badil, PRDR, UDP, RDU); National Pact for Democracy and Development or PNDD-ADIL (independents supporting President Abdellahi) [Yahya Ould Ahmed Ould WAGHEF]; National Rally for Freedom, Democracy and Equality or RNDLE; National Rally for Reform and Development or Tawassoul (moderate Islamists) [Mohamed Jemil Ould MANSOUR]; Popular Front or FP [Ch'bih Ould CHEIKH MALAININE]; Popular Progressive Alliance or APP [Messoud Ould BOULKHEIR]; Rally of Democratic Forces or RFD [Ahmed Ould DADDAH]; Rally for Democracy and Unity or RDU [Ahmed Ould SIDI BABA]; Republican Party for Democracy and Renewal or PRDR [Boullah Ould MOGUEYA] (formerly ruling Democratic and Social Republican Party or PRDS); Socialist and Democratic Unity Party or PUDS; Union for Democracy and Progress or UDP [Naha Mint MOUKNASS]; Union of Democratic Center or UCD [Cheikh Sid'Ahmed Ould BABA]; Union of the Forces for Progress or UFP [Mohamed Ould MAOULOUD] 
				Mauritius
			Alliance Sociale or AS [Navinchandra RAMGOOLAM] (governing coalition - includes MLD, MMSM, MR, MSD, PMXD); Mauritian Labor Party or MLP [Navinchandra RAMGOOLAM]; Mauritian Militant Movement or MMM [Paul BERENGER]; Mauritian Socialist Militant Movement or MMSM [Madan DULLOO]; Militant Socialist Movement or MSM [Pravind JUGNAUTH]; Mouvement Republicain or MR [Jayarama VALAYDEN]; Parti Mauricien Xavier Duval or PMXD [Xavier Luc DUVAL]; Rodrigues Movement or MR [Joseph (Nicholas) Von MALLY]; Rodrigues Peoples Organization or OPR [Serge CLAIR] 
				Mayotte
			Democratic Front or FD [Youssouf MOUSSA]; Mahoran Popular Movement or MPM [Ahmed MADI]; Federation of Mahorans or UMP-RPR [Mansour KAMARDINE]; Force of the Rally and the Alliance for Democracy or FRAP; Movement for Department Status Mayotte or MDM [Mouhoutar SALIM]; Renewed Communist Party of Mayotte or MRC [Omar SIMBA]; Socialist Party or PS [Ibrahim ABUBACAR] (local branch of French Parti Socialiste); Union for French Democracy or UDF [Henri JEAN-BAPTISTE] 
				Mexico
			Convergence for Democracy or CD [Luis MALDONADO Venegas]; Institutional Revolutionary Party or PRI [Beatriz PAREDES]; Labor Party or PT [Alberto ANAYA Gutierrez]; Mexican Green Ecological Party or PVEM [Jorge Emilio GONZALEZ Martinez]; National Action Party (Partido Accion Nacional) or PAN [German MARTINEZ Cazares]; New Alliance Party (Partido Nueva Alianza) or PNA [Jorge Antonio KAHWAGI Macari]; Party of the Democratic Revolution (Partido de la Revolucion Democratica) or PRD [Leonel COTA Montano]; Social Democratic and Peasant Alternative Party (Partido Alternativa Socialdemocrata y Campesina) or Alternativa [Alberto BEGNE Guerra] 
				Micronesia, Federated States of
			no formal parties 
				Moldova
			Centrist Union or UCM [Vasile TARLEV]; Christian Democratic People's Party or PPCD [Iurie ROSCA]; Communist Party of the Republic of Moldova or PCRM [Vladimir VORONIN]; Democratic Party or PD [Dumitru DIACOV]; Liberal Democratic Party or PLDM [Vladmir FILAT]; Liberal Party or PL [Mihai GHIMPU]; National Liberal Party or PNL [Vitalia PAVLICENKO]; Our Moldova Alliance or AMN [Serafim URECHEAN]; Party for Social Democracy or PDSM [Dumitru BRAGHIS] 
				Monaco
			Union for Monaco or UPM (including National Union for the Future of Monaco or UNAM); Rally and Issues for Monaco or REM; Monaco Together 
				Mongolia
			Democratic Party or DP [Norov ALTANHUYAG]; Mongolian People's Revolutionary Party or MPRP [Sanjaa BAYAR] 
				Montenegro
			Albanian Alternative or AA [Vesel SINISHTAJ]; Coalition for European Montenegro or DPS-SDP (bloc) [Milo DJUKANOVIC] (includes Democratic Party of Socialists or DPS [Milo DJUKANOVIC] and Social Democratic Party or SDP [Ranko KRIVOKAPIC]); Coalition SNP-NS-DSS (bloc) (includes Socialist People's Party or SNP [Srdjan MILIC], People's Party of Montenegro or NS [Predrag POPOVIC], and Democratic Serbian Party of Montenegro or DSS [Ranko KADIC]); Democratic League-Party of Democratic Prosperity or SPP [Mehmet BARDHIJ]; Democratic Union of Albanians or DUA [Ferhat DINOSA]; Liberals and the Bosniak Party (bloc) [Miodrag ZIVKOVIC] (includes Liberal Party of Montenegro or LP [Miodrag ZIVKOVIC] and Bosniak Party or BS [Rafet HUSOVIC]); Movement for Changes or PZP [Nebojsa MEDOJEVIC]; Serbian List (bloc) [Andrija MANDIC] (includes Party of Serb Radicals or SSR [Dusko SEKULIC], People's Socialist Party or NSS [Emilo LABUDOVIC], and Serbian People's Party of Montenegro or SNS [Andrija MANDIC]) 
				Montserrat
			Montserrat Democratic Party or MDP [Lowell LEWIS]; Movement for Change and Prosperity or MCAP [Roselyn CASSELL-SEALY]; New People's Liberation Movement or NPLM [John A. OSBORNE] 
				Morocco
			Action Party or PA [Mohammed EL IDRISSI]; Al Ahd (The Covenant) Party [Najib EL OUAZZANI]; Alliance des Libert'es (Alliance of Liberty) or ADL [Ali BELHAJ]; An-Nahj Ad-Dimocrati or An-Nahj [Abdellah EL HARIF]; Authenticity and Modernity Party or PAM [Mohamed Cheikh BIADILLAH]; Choura et Istiqlal (Consultation and Independence) Party or PCI [Abdelwahed MAACH]; Citizens' Forces or FC [Abderrahman LAHJOUJI]; Citizenship and Development Initiative or ICD [Mohamed BENHAMOU]; Constitutional Union Party or UC [Mohammed ABIED]; Democratic and Social Movement or MDS [Mahmoud ARCHANE]; Democratic Forces Front or FFD [Touhami EL KHIARI]; Democratic Socialist Vanguard Party or PADS [Ahmed BENJELLOUN]; Democratic Society Party or PSD [Zhor CHEKKAFI]; Democratic Union or UD [Bouazza IKKEN]; Environment and Development Party or PED [Ahmed EL ALAMI]; Istiqlal (Independence) Party or PI [Abbas EL FASSI]; Justice and Development Party or PJD [Abdelilah BENKIRANE]; Labor Party or PT [Abdelkrim BENATIK]; Moroccan Liberal Party or PML [Mohamed ZIANE]; National Democratic Party or PND [Abdallah KADIRI]; National Ittihadi Congress Party or CNI [Abdelmajid BOUZOUBAA]; National Popular Movement or MNP [Mahjoubi AHERDANE]; National Rally of Independents or RNI [Mustapha EL MANSOURI]; National Union of Popular Forces or UNFP [Abdellah IBRAHIM]; Popular Movement or MP [Mohamed LAENSER]; Progress and Socialism Party or PPS [Ismail ALAOUI]; Reform and Development Party or PRD [Abderrahmane EL KOUHEN]; Renaissance and Virtue Party or PRV [Mohamed KHALIDI]; Renewal and Equity Party or PRE [Chakir ACHABAR]; Social Center Party or PSC [Lahcen MADIH]; Socialist Democratic Party or PSD [Aissa OUARDIGHI]; Socialist Union of Popular Forces or USFP [Abdelwahed RADI]; Unified Socialist Left Party or PGSU [Mohamed Ben Said AIT IDDER] 
				Mozambique
			Front for the Liberation of Mozambique (Frente de Liberatacao de Mocambique) or FRELIMO [Armando Emilio GUEBUZA]; Mozambique National Resistance (Resistencia Nacional Mocambicana) or RENAMO [Afonso DHLAKAMA] 
				Namibia
			All People's Party or APP [Ignatius SHIXWAMENI]; Congress of Democrats or COD [Ben ULENGA]; Democratic Turnhalle Alliance of Namibia or DTA [Katuutire KAURA]; Monitor Action Group or MAG [Jurie VILJOEN]; National Democratic Movement for Change or NamDMC; National Unity Democratic Organization or NUDO [Kuaima RIRUAKO]; Rally for Democracy and Progress or RDP [Hidipo HAMUTENYA]; Republican Party or RP [Henk MUDGE]; South West Africa National Union or SWANU [Usutuaije MAAMBERUA]; South West Africa People's Organization or SWAPO [Hifikepunye POHAMBA]; United Democratic Front or UDF [Justus GAROEB] 
				Nauru
			Democratic Party [Kennan ADEANG]; Nauru Party (informal); Nauru First (Naoero Amo) Party; note - loose multiparty system 
				Nepal
			Chure Bhawar Rastriya Ekata Party [Keshav Prasad MAINALI]; Communist Party of Nepal (ML) [C.P. MAINALI]; Communist Party of Nepal (Unified) [Raj Singh SHRIS]; Communist Party of Nepal (United) [Ganesh SHAH]; Communist Party of Nepal/United Marxist-Leninist or CPN/UML [Jhalanath KHANAL]; Dalit Janajati Party [Vishwendraman PASHWAN]; Madhesi People's Rights Forum [Upendra YADAV]; National Democratic Party or NDP [Pashupati Shumsher RANA] (also called Rastriya Prajatantra Party or RPP); Nepal Loktantrik Samajbadi Dal [Upendra GACHCHHADAR]; Nepal Pariwar Dal [Vinod DANGI]; Nepal Rastriya Party [Khushilal YADAV]; Nepal Sadbhavana Party (Anandi Devi) [Shyam Sundar GUPTA]; Nepal Workers and Peasants Party or NWPP [Narayan Man BIJUKCHHE]; Nepali Congress Party or NCP [Girija Prasad KOIRALA]; Nepali Janata Dal [Bharat Prasad MAHATO]; Rastriya Janamorcha [Chitra BAHADUR K.C.]; Rastriya Janamukti Party [Malwar Singh THAPA]; Rastriya Janashakti Party or RJP [Surya Bahadur THAPA]; Rastriya Prajatantra Party Nepal [Kamal THAPA]; Sadbhavana Party (Mahato) [Rajendra MAHATO]; Samajbadi Prajatantrik Janata Party Nepal [Prem Bahadur SINGH]; Sanghiya Loktantrik Rastriya Manch [Kamal CHHARAHANG]; Terai-Madhes Democratic Party [Mahantha THAKUR]; United Communist Party of Nepal (Maoist) [Pushpa Kamal DAHAL, also known as PRACHANDA, chairman] 
				Netherlands
			Christian Democratic Appeal or CDA [Pieter VAN GEEL]; Christian Union Party [Arie SLOB]; Democrats 66 or D66 [Alexander PECHTOLD]; Green Left Party [Femke HALSEMA]; Labor Party or PvdA [Mariette HAMER]; Party for Freedom or PVV [Geert WILDERS]; Party for the Animals or PvdD [Marianne THIEME]; People's Party for Freedom and Democracy (Liberal) or VVD [Mark RUTTE]; Reformed Political Party of SGP [Bas VAN DER VLIES]; Socialist Party [Agnes KANT]; plus a few minor parties 
				Netherlands Antilles
				Bonaire: Democratic Party of Bonaire or PDB [Jopi ABRAHAM]; Patriotic Union of Bonaire or UPB [Ramonsito BOOI] 
				Curacao: Ban Vota [Norbert GEORGE]; C-93 [Stanley BROWN]; Democratic Party of Curacao or DP [Errol HERNANDEZ]; E Mayoria [Aurelio PEDRO]; Forsa Korsou [Nelson NAVARRO]; Liste Ni'un Paso Atras [Nelson PIERRE]; Movemiento Patriotiko Korsou [Reginald LAK]; New Antilles Movement or MAN [Charles COOPER]; Partido Akshon Pa Prosperidat I Seguridat [Sonja BERKEMEYER]; Partido Laboral Krusada Popular or PLKP [Errol COVA]; Party for the Restructured Antilles or PAR [Emily de JONGH-ELHAGE]; People's National Party or PNP [Ersilia DE LANNOOY]; Pidjin [Jasmin PINEDO]; Pueblo Soberano [Herman WIELS]; Workers' Liberation Front or FOL [Anthony GODETT] 
				Saba: Saba Labor Party [Akilah LEVENSTONE]; Windward Islands People's Movement or WIPM [Ray HASSELL] 
				Sint Eustatius: Democratic Party of Sint Eustatius or DP-St. E [Julian WOODLEY]; Progressive Labor Party [Clyde VAN PUTTEN]; St. Eustatius Alliance [Ingrid HOUTMAN-WHITFIELD] 
				Sint Maarten: Democratic Party of Sint Maarten or DP-St. M [Sarah WESCOTT-WILLIAMS]; Freedom Slate of National Democratic Party [Theophilus PRIEST]; National Alliance or NA [William MARLIN]; People's Progressive Alliance or PPA [Gracita ARRINDELL]; St. Maarten People's Party [Johan LEONARD]; United People's Labor Party [Bienvenido RICHARDSON] 
				note: political parties are indigenous to each island 
				New Caledonia
			Alliance pour la Caledonie or APLC [Didier LE ROUX]; Caledonian Union or UC; Federation des Comites de Coordination des Independantistes or FCCI [Francois BURCK]; Front National or FN [Guy GEORGE]; Front Uni de Liberation Kanak or FULK [Ernest UNE]; Kanak Socialist Front for National Liberation or FLNKS (includes PALIKA, UNI, UC, and UPM); Parti de Liberation Kanak or PALIKA [Paul NEAOUTYINE and Elie POIGOUNE]; Rally for Caledonia in the Republic (anti independence) or RPCR-UMP [Jacques LAFLEUR]; The Future Together or AE [Harold MARTIN]; Union Nationale pour l'Independance or UNI [Paul NEAOUTYINE]; note - may no longer exist, but Paul NEAOUTYINE has since become a president of Parti de Liberation Kanak or PALIKA; Union Progressiste Melanesienne or UPM [Victor TUTUGORO] 
				New Zealand
			ACT New Zealand [Rodney HIDE]; Green Party [Jeanette FITZSIMONS]; Maori Party [Tariana TURIA and Pita SHARPLES]; National Party or NP [John KEY]; New Zealand First Party or NZ First [Winston PETERS]; New Zealand Labor Party or NZLP [Phil GOFF]; Progressive Party [James (Jim) ANDERTON]; United Future or UF [Peter DUNNE] 
				Nicaragua
			Conservative Party or PC [Azalia AVILES Salmeron]; Liberal Constitutionalist Party or PLC [Jorge CASTILLO Quant]; Nicaraguan Democratic Bloc or BDN [Eduardo MONTEALEGRE]; Nicaraguan Liberal Alliance or ALN [Eliseo NUNEZ Sr.]; Sandinista National Liberation Front or FSLN [Daniel ORTEGA Saavedra]; Sandinista Renovation Movement or MRS [Enrique SAENZ Navarrete] 
				Niger
			Democratic and Social Convention-Rahama or CDS-Rahama [Mahamane OUSMANE]; National Movement for a Developing Society-Nassara or MNSD-Nassara [Hama AMADOU]; Niger Social Democratic Party or PSDN; Nigerien Alliance for Democracy and Social Progress-Zaman Lahiya or ANDP-Zaman Lahiya [Moumouni DJERMAKOYE]; Nigerien Party for Autonomy or PNA-Alouma'a [Sanousi JACKOU]; Nigerien Party for Democracy and Socialism or PNDS-Tarrayya [Issifou MAHAMADOU]; Nigerien Progressive Party or PPN-RDA [Abdoulaye DIORI]; Rally for Democracy and Progress or RDP-jama'a [Hamid ALGABID]; Social and Democratic Rally or RSD-Gaskiyya [Cheiffou AMADOU] 
				Nigeria
			Accord Party [Ikra Aliyu BILBIS]; Action Congress or AC [Hassan ZUMI]; Alliance for Democracy or AD [Mojisoluwa AKINFENWA]; All Nigeria Peoples' Party or ANPP [Edwin UME-EZEOKE]; All Progressives Grand Alliance or APGA [Victor C. UMEH]; Democratic People's Party or DPP [Jeremiah USENI]; Fresh Democratic Party [Chris OKOTIE]; Labor Party [Dan NWANYANWU]; Movement for the Restoration and Defense of Democracy or MRDD [Mohammed Gambo JIMETA]; National Democratic Party or NDP [Aliyu Habu FARI]; Peoples Democratic Party or PDP [Vincent OGBULAFOR]; Peoples Progressive Alliance [Clement EBRI]; Peoples Redemption Party or PRP [Abdulkadir Balarabe MUSA]; Peoples Salvation Party or PSP [Lawal MAITURARE]; United Nigeria Peoples Party or UNPP [Mallam Selah JAMBO] 
				Niue
			Alliance of Independents or AI; Niue People's Action Party or NPP [Young VIVIAN] 
				Norfolk Island
			none 
				Northern Mariana Islands
			Covenant Party [Benigno R. FITIAL]; Democratic Party [Dr. Carlos S. CAMACHO]; Republican Party [Juan S. REYES] 
				Norway
			Center Party [Liv Signe NAVARSETE]; Christian People's Party [Dagfinn HOYBRATEN]; Conservative Party [Erna SOLBERG]; Labor Party [Jens STOLTENBERG]; Liberal Party [Lars SPONHEIM]; Progress Party [Siv JENSEN]; Socialist Left Party [Kristin HALVORSEN] 
				Oman
			none 
				Pakistan
			Awami National Party or ANP [Asfandyar Wali KHAN]; Balochistan National Party-Hayee Group or BNP-H [Dr. Hayee BALOCH]; Balochistan National Party-Awami or BNP-A [Moheem Khan BALOCH]; Balochistan National Party-Mengal or BNP-M [Sardar Ataullah MENGAL]; Jamhoori Watan Party or JWP; Jamiat Ahle Hadith or JAH [Sajid MIR]; Jamaat-i Islami or JI [Qazi Hussain AHMED]; Jamiat Ulema-i Islam Fazlur Rehman or JUI-F [Fazlur REHMAN]; Jamiat Ulema-i Islam Sami-ul HAQ or JUI-S [Sami ul-HAQ]; Jamiat Ulema-i Pakistan or JUP [Shah Faridul HAQ]; Muttahida Majlis-e Amal or MMA [Qazi Hussain AHMED]; Muttahida Qaumi Movement or MQM [Altaf HUSSAIN]; National Alliance or NA [Ghulam Mustapha JATOI] (merged with PML); National Peoples Party or NPP; Pakhtun Khwa Milli Awami Party or PKMAP [Mahmood Khan ACHAKZAI]; Pakistan Awami Tehrik or PAT [Tahir ul QADRI]; Pakistan Muslim League-Functional or PML-F [Pir PAGARO]; Pakistan Muslim League-Nawaz Sharif or PML-N [Nawaz SHARIF]; Pakistan Muslim League or PML [Chaudhry Shujaat HUSSAIN]; Pakistan Peoples Party-SHERPAO or PPP-S [Aftab Ahmed Khan SHERPAO]; Pakistan Peoples Party Parliamentarians or PPPP [Bilawal Bhutto ZARDARI, chairman; Asif Ali ZARDARI, co-chairman]; Pakistan Tehrik-e Insaaf or PTI [Imran KHAN]; Tehrik-i Islami [Allama Sajid NAQVI] 
				note: political alliances in Pakistan can shift frequently 
				Palau
			none 
				Panama
			Democratic Change or CD [Ricardo MARTINELLI]; Democratic Revolutionary Party or PRD [Martin TORRIJOS Espino]; Nationalist Republican Liberal Movement or MOLIRENA [Sergio GONZALEZ-Ruiz]; Panamenista Party or PA [Juan Carlos VARELA] (formerly the Arnulfista Party); Patriotic Union Party or PU (combination of the Liberal National Party or PLN and the Solidarity Party or PS)[Guillermo "Billy" FORD and Anibal GALINDO]; Popular Party or PP [Rene ORILLAC] (formerly Christian Democratic Party or PDC) 
				Papua New Guinea
			National Alliance Party or NA [Michael SOMARE]; Papua and Niugini Union Party or PANGU PATI [Andrew KUMBAKOR]; Papua New Guinea Party or PNGP [Sir Mekere MORAUTA]; People's Democratic Movement or PDM [Michael OGIO]; People's Action Party or PAP [Gabriel KAPRIS]; United Resources Party or URP [William DUMA] (2007) 
				Paraguay
			Alianza Patriotica por el Cambio (Patriotic Alliance for Change) or APC [Fernando LUGO]; Asociacion Nacional Republicana - Colorado Party or ANR [Lilian SAMANIEGO]; Movimiento Union Nacional de Ciudadanos Eticos or UNACE [Lino Cesar OVIEDO Silva]; Patria Querida (Beloved Fatherland Party) or PPQ [Pedro Nicolas Maraa FADUL Niella]; Partido del Movimiento al Socialismo or P-MAS; Partido Encuentro Nacional or PEN [Emilio CAMACHO Paredes]; Partido Liberal Radical Autentico or PLRA [Gustavo CARDOZO]; Partido Pais Solidario or PPS [Carlos Alberto FILIZZOLA Pallares] 
				Peru
			Alliance For Progress (Alianza Para El Progreso) [Cesar ACUNA Peralta]; Alliance For The Future (Alianza Por El Futuro) or AF (a coalition of pro-FUJIMORI parties including Cambio 90, Nueva Mayoria, and Si Cumple); Central Front (Frente Del Centro) or FC (a coalition of Accion Popular, Somos Peru, and Coordinadora Nacional de Independientes) [Victor Andres GARCIA Belaunde]; National Renovation Party (Partido Renovacion Nacional) [Rafael REY]; National Restoration Party (Restauracion Nacional) or RN [Humberto LAY Sun]; National Solidarity Party (Partido Solidaridad Nacional) or SN [Luis CASTANEDA Lossio]; Peru Possible (Peru Posible) or PP [Alejandro TOLEDO Manrique]; Peruvian Aprista Party (Partido Aprista Peruano) or PAP [Alan GARCIA Perez] (also referred to by its original name Alianza Popular Revolucionaria Americana or APRA); Peruvian Nationalist Party (Partido Nacionalista Peruano) or PNP [Ollanta HUMALA Tasso]; Popular Christian Party (Partido Popular Cristiano) or PPC [Lourdes FLORES Nano]; Union for Peru (Union por el Peru) or UPP [Aldo ESTRADA Choque] 
				Philippines
			Kabalikat ng Malayang Pilipino or Kampi [Luis VILLAFUERTE]; Laban ng Demokratikong Pilipino (Struggle of Filipino Democrats) or LDP [Edgardo ANGARA]; Lakas ng EDSA-Christian Muslim Democrats or Lakas-CMD [Prospero NOGRALES]; Liberal Party or LP [Manuel ROXAS]; Nacionalista Party or NP [Manuel VILLAR]; Nationalist People's Coalition or NPC [Frisco SAN JUAN]; PDP-Laban [Aquilino PIMENTEL]; People's Reform Party [Miriam Defensor SANTIAGO]; Puwersa ng Masang Pilipino (Force of the Philippine Masses) or PMP [Joseph ESTRADA]; United Opposition or UNO [Jejomar BINAY] 
				Pitcairn Islands
			none 
				Poland
			Civic Platform or PO [chairman Donald TUSK; parliamentary caucus leader Zbigniew CHLEBOWSKI]; Democratic Caucus (Democratic Party and independents) [Bogdan LIS]; Democratic Left Alliance or SLD [Grzegorz NAPIERALSKI]; Democratic Party or PD [Brygida KUZNIAK]; German Minority of Lower Silesia or MNSO [Henryk KROLL]; Law and Justice or PiS [Przemyslaw GOSIEWSKI]; League of Polish Families or LPR [Miroslaw ORZECHOWSKI]; Left (Democratic Left Alliance and independents) [Wojciech OLEJNICZAK]; Polish People's Party or PSL [Stanislaw ZELICHOWSKI]; Polska XXI (political grouping of former PiS members; not officially registered) [Jaroslaw SELLIN]; Samoobrona or SO [Andrzej LEPPER]; Social Democratic Party of Poland or SDPL [chairman Wojciech FILEMONOWICZ]; Social Democratic Party of Poland-New Left (SDPL-New Left) [parliamentary caucus leader Marek BOROWSKI]; Union of Labor or UP [Waldemar WITKOWSKI] 
				Portugal
			Democratic and Social Center/Popular Party or CDS/PP [Paulo PORTAS]; Green Ecologist Party (The Greens) or PEV [leadership commission elected by members]; Portuguese Communist Party or PCP [Jeronimo DE SOUSA]; Portuguese Socialist Party or PS [Jose SOCRATES Carvalho Pinto de Sousa]; Social Democratic Party or PSD [Manuela FERREIRA LEITE]; The Left Bloc or BE [Franciso Anacleto LOUCA]; Unitarian Democratic Coalition or CDU [Jeronimo DE SOUSA] (includes PCP and PEV) 
				Puerto Rico
			National Democratic Party [Roberto PRATS]; National Republican Party of Puerto Rico [Dr. Tiody FERRE]; New Progressive Party or PNP [Pedro ROSSELLO] (pro-US statehood); Popular Democratic Party or PPD [Anibal ACEVEDO-VILA] (pro-commonwealth); Puerto Rican Independence Party or PIP [Ruben BERRIOS Martinez] (pro-independence) 
				Qatar
			none 
				Romania
			Conservative Party or PC [Daniela POPA] (formerly Humanist Party or PUR); Democratic Liberal Party or PDL [Emil BOC]; Democratic Union of Hungarians in Romania or UDMR [Bela MARKO]; National Liberal Party or PNL [Calin Popescu-TARICEANU]; Social Democratic Party or PSD [Mircea Dan GEOANA] (formerly Party of Social Democracy in Romania or PDSR) 
				Russia
			Communist Party of the Russian Federation or CPRF [Gennadiy Andreyevich ZYUGANOV]; Just Russia [Sergey MIRONOV]; Liberal Democratic Party of Russia or LDPR [Vladimir Volfovich ZHIRINOVSKIY]; Patriots of Russia [Gennadiy SEMIGIN]; People's Union [Sergey BABURIN]; Right Cause [Leonid Yakovlevich GOZMAN, Boris Yuriyevich TITOV, and Georgiy Georgiyevich BOVT] (registration pending; formed from merger of Union of Right Forces, Democratic Party of Russia, and Civic Force); United Russia [Vladimir Vladimirovich PUTIN]; Yabloko Party [Sergey Sergeyevich MITROKHIN] 
				Rwanda
			Centrist Democratic Party or PDC [Alfred MUKEZAMFURA]; Democratic Popular Union of Rwanda or UDPR [Adrien RANGIRA]; Democratic Republican Movement or MDR [Celestin KABANDA] (officially banned); Islamic Democratic Party or PDI [Andre BUMAYA]; Liberal Party or PL [Protais MITALI]; Party for Democratic Renewal (officially banned); Rwandan Patriotic Front or RPF [Paul KAGAME]; Social Democratic Party or PSD [Vincent BIRUTA] 
				Saint Barthelemy
			Action-Equilibre-Transparence [Maxime DESOUCHES]; Ensemble pour Saint-Barthelemy [Benoit CHAUVIN]; Saint-Barth d'Abord! or SBA [Bruno MAGRAS]; Tous Unis pour Saint-Barthelemy [Karine MIOT-RICHARD] 
				Saint Helena
			none 
				Saint Kitts and Nevis
			Concerned Citizens Movement or CCM [Vance AMORY]; Nevis Reformation Party or NRP [Joseph PARRY]; People's Action Movement or PAM [Lindsay GRANT]; Saint Kitts and Nevis Labor Party or SKNLP [Dr. Denzil DOUGLAS] 
				Saint Lucia
			National Alliance or NA [George ODLUM]; Saint Lucia Freedom Party or SFP [Martinus FRANCOIS]; Saint Lucia Labor Party or SLP [Kenneth ANTHONY]; Sou Tout Apwe Fete Fini or STAFF [Christopher HUNTE]; United Workers Party or UWP [Stephenson KING] 
				Saint Martin
			Union Pour le Progres or UPP [Louis-Constant FLEMING]; Rassemblement Responsabilite Reussite or RRR [Alain RICHARDSON]; Reussir Saint-Martin [Jean-Luc HAMLET] 
				Saint Pierre and Miquelon
			Archipelago Tomorrow or AD affiliated with UDF/RPR list; Cap sur l'Avenir affiliated with PRG; Left Radical Party or PRG; Rassemblement pour la Republique or RPR (now UMP); Saint Pierre and Miquelon 2000/Avenir Miquelon or SPM 2000/AM; Socialist Party or PS; Union pour la Democratie Francaise or UDF 
				Saint Vincent and the Grenadines
			New Democratic Party or NDP [Arnhim EUSTACE]; Unity Labor Party or ULP [Ralph GONSALVES] (formed by the coalition of Saint Vincent Labor Party or SVLP and the Movement for National Unity or MNU) 
				Samoa
			Human Rights Protection Party or HRPP [Sailele Malielegaoi TUILA'EPA]; Samoa Christian Party or TCP [Tuala Tiresa MALIETOA]; Samoa Democratic United Party or SDUP [LE MAMEA Ropati]; Samoa Party or SP [Su'a Rimoni Ah CHONG]; Samoa Progressive Political Party or SPPP [Toeolesulusulu SIUEVA] 
				San Marino
			Christian Democrats or PDCS [Pasquale VALENTINI]; Communist Refoundation or RC [Ivan FOSHI]; Democrats of the Center or DdC [Giovanni LONGERNINI]; Freedom List (including NPS and We Sammarinesi or NS [Gabriele GATTEI]; New Socialist Party or NPS [Augusto CASALI]; Party of Socialists and Democrats or PDS [Paride ANDREOLI]; Popular Alliance or AP [Carlo FRANCIOSI]; Union of Moderates (including National Alliance or ANS [Glcuco SANSOVINI] and San Marino Populars or pop [Romeo MORRI and Angela VENTURINI]; United Left of SU [Alessandro ROSSI] 
				Sao Tome and Principe
			Force for Change Democratic Movement or MDFM [Tome Soares da VERA CRUZ]; Independent Democratic Action or ADI [[Patrice TROVOADA]; Movement for the Liberation of Sao Tome and Principe-Social Democratic Party or MLSTP-PSD [Rafael BRANCO]; New Way Movement or NR; Party for Democratic Convergence or PCD [Delfim NEVES]; Ue-Kedadji coalition; other small parties 
				Saudi Arabia
			none 
				Senegal
			African Party of Independence [Majhemout DIOP]; Alliance for the Republic-Yakaar [Macky Sall]; And-Jef/African Party for Democracy and Socialism or AJ/PADS [Landing SAVANE]; Alliance of Forces of Progress or AFP [Moustapha NIASSE]; Democratic League-Labor Party Movement or LD-MPT [Dr. Abdoulaye BATHILY]; Front for Socialism and Democracy/Benno Jubel or FSD/BJ [Cheikh Abdoulaye Bamba DIEYE]; Gainde Centrist Bloc or BGC [Jean-Paul DIAS]; Independence and Labor Party or PIT [Amath DANSOKHO]; Jef-Jel [Talla SYLLA]; National Democratic Rally or RND [Madior DIOUF]; People's Labor Party or PTP [Elhadji DIOUF]; Reform Party or PR [Abdourahim AGNE]; Rewmi Party [Idrissa Seck]; Senegalese Democratic Party or PDS [Abdoulaye WADE]; Socialist Party or PS [Ousmane Tanor DIENG]; SOPI Coalition [Abdoulaye WADE] (a coalition led by the PDS); Union for Democratic Renewal or URD [Djibo Leyti KA] 
				Serbia
			Coalition of Albanians of the Presevo Valley or KAPD [Riza HALIMI]; Coalition for Sandzak or KZS [Sulejman UGLJANIN]; Democratic Party of Albanians or PDSh [Ragmi MUSTAFA]; Democratic Party of Serbia or DSS [Vojislav KOSTUNICA]; Democratic Party or DS [Boris TADIC]; Democratic Union of the Valley or BDL [Skender DESTANI]; For a European Serbia [Boris TADIC]; Force of Serbia Movement or PSS [Bogoljub KARIC]; G17 Plus [Mladjan DINKIC]; League of Vojvodina Hungarians or SVM [Istvan PASTOR]; Liberal Democratic Party or LDP [Cedomir JOVANOVIC]; Movement for Democratic Progress or LPD [Jonuz MUSLIU]; New Serbia or NS [Velimir ILIC]; Party of Democratic Action or PVD [Riza HALIMI]; People's Party or NS [Maja GOJKOVIC]; Roma Party or RP [Srdjan SAJN]; Serbian Progressive Party or SNS [Tomislav NIKOLIC]; Serbian Radical Party or SRS [Vojislav SESELJ (currently on trial at The Hague), with Dragan TODOROVIC as acting leader]; Socialist Party of Serbia or SPS [Ivica DACIC]; Union of Roma of Serbia or URS [Rajko DJURIC] 
				Seychelles
			Democratic Party or DP [James MANCHAM, Paul CHOW]; Seychelles National Party or SNP [Wavel RAMKALAWAN] (formerly the United Opposition or UO); Seychelles People's Progressive Front or SPPF [France Albert RENE, James MICHEL] (the governing party) 
				Sierra Leone
			All People's Congress or APC [Ernest Bai KOROMA]; Peace and Liberation Party or PLP [Darlington MORRISON]; People's Movement for Democratic Change or PMDC [Charles MARGAI]; Sierra Leone People's Party or SLPP [Solomon BEREWA]; numerous others 
				Singapore
			People's Action Party or PAP [LEE Hsien Loong]; Reform Party [NG Teck Siong]; Singapore Democratic Alliance or SDA [CHIAM See Tong]; Singapore Democratic Party or SDP [CHEE Soon Juan]; Workers' Party or WP [Sylvia LIM Swee Lian] 
				note: SDA includes Singapore Justice Party or SJP, Singapore National Malay Organization or PKMS, Singapore People's Party or SPP 
				Slovakia
				parties in the Parliament:: Christian Democratic Movement or KDH [Pavol HRUSOVSKY]; Direction-Social Democracy or Smer-SD [Robert FICO]; Party of the Hungarian Coalition or SMK [Pal CSAKY]; People's Party - Movement for a Democratic Slovakia or LS-HZDS [Vladimir MECIAR]; Slovak Democratic and Christian Union-Democratic Party or SDKU-DS [Mikulas DZURINDA]; Slovak National Party or SNS [Jan SLOTA] 
				selected parties outside the Parliament:: Agrarian Party of the Provinces or ASV [Vladimir GOZORA]; Alliance of the New Citizen or ANO [Pavol RUSKO]; Civic Conservative Party or OKS [Peter ZAJAC]; Free Forum [Zuzana MARTINAKOVA]; Mission 21 - New Christian Democracy or MISIA 21 [Ivan SIMKO]; Movement for Democracy or HZD [Jozef GRAPA]; Party of the Democratic Left or SDL [Ladislav KOZMON]; Prosperita Slovenska or PS [Frantisek A. ZVRSKOVEC]; Slovak Communist Party or KSS [Jozef HRDLICKA]; Slovak People's Party or SLS [Jozef SASIK]; Union of the Workers of Slovakia or ZRS [Jan LUPTAK] 
				Slovenia
			Liberal Democracy of Slovenia or LDS [Katarina KRESAL]; New Slovenia or NSi [Ljudmila NOVAK (acting)]; Slovenian Democratic Party or SDS [Janez JANSA]; Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia or DeSUS [Karl ERJAVEC]; Slovene National Party or SNS [Zmago JELINCIC]; Slovene People's Party or SLS [Bojan SROT]; Slovene Youth Party or SMS [Darko KRANJC]; Social Democrats or SD [Borut PAHOR] (formerly ZLSD); ZARES [Gregor Golobic] 
				Solomon Islands
			Association of Independent Members or AIM [Thomas CHAN]; Christian Alliance Solomon Islands or CASI [Edward RONIA]; LAFARI Party [John GARO]; National Party [Francis HILLY]; People's Alliance Party or PAP [Sir Allan KEMAKEZA]; Social Credit Party or SOCRED [Manasseh Damukana SOGAVARE]; Solomon First Party [David QUAN]; Solomon Islands Democratic Party [Gabriel SURI]; Solomon Islands Labor Party or SILP [Joses TUHANUKU]; Solomon Islands Liberal Party [Bartholomew ULUFA'ALU]; Solomon Islands Party for Rural Advancement or SIPRA [Job D. TAUSINGA]; United Party [Sir Peter KENILOREA] 
				note: in general, Solomon Islands politics is characterized by fluid coalitions 
				Somalia
			none 
				South Africa
			African Christian Democratic Party or ACDP [Kenneth MESHOE]; African National Congress or ANC [Jacob ZUMA]; Congress of the People or COPE [Mosiuo LEKOTA]; Democratic Alliance or DA [Helen ZILLE]; Freedom Front Plus or FF+ [Pieter MULDER]; Inkatha Freedom Party or IFP [Mangosuthu BUTHELEZI]; New National Party or NNP; Pan-Africanist Congress or PAC [Motsoko PHEKO]; United Democratic Movement or UDM [Bantu HOLOMISA] 
				Spain
			Aragonese Party or CHA [Bizen FUSTER]; Basque Nationalist Party or PNV or EAJ [Inigo URKULLU]; Basque Solidarity or EA [Begona ERRAZTI]; Canarian Coalition or CC [Jose Torres STINGA] (a coalition of five parties); Convergence and Union or CiU [Artur MAS i Gavarro] (a coalition of the Democratic Convergence of Catalonia or CDC [Artur MAS i Gavarro] and the Democratic Union of Catalonia or UDC [Josep Antoni DURAN i LLEIDA]); Entesa Catalonia de Progress (a Senate coalition grouping four Catalan parties - PSC, ERC, ICV, EUA); Galician Nationalist Bloc or BNG [Anxo Manuel QUINTANA Gonzalez]; Initiative for Catalonia Greens or ICV [Joan SAURA i Laporta]; Navarra yes or Na Bai [Uxue BARKOS Berruezo] (a coalition of four Navarran parties); Popular Party or PP [Mariano RAJOY Brey]; Republican Left of Catalonia or ERC [Joan RIDAO]; Spanish Socialist Workers Party or PSOE [Jose Luis Rodriguez ZAPATERO]; United Left or IU [Cayo LARA] (a coalition of parties including the Communist Party of Spain or PCE and other small parties) 
				Sri Lanka
			All Ceylon Tamil Congress or ACTC [G.PONNAMBALAM]; Ceylon Workers Congress or CWC [Arumugam THONDAMAN]; Communist Party or CP [D. GUNASEKERA]; Eelam People's Democratic Party or EPDP [Douglas DEVANANDA]; Eelam People's Revolutionary Liberation Front or EPRLF [Suresh PREMACHANDRAN]; Janatha Vimukthi Peramuna or JVP [Somawansa AMARASINGHE]; Lanka Sama Samaja Party or LSSP [Tissa VITHARANA]; Mahajana Eksath Peramuna (People's United Front) or MEP [D. GUNAWARDENE]; National Heritage Party or JHU [Ellawala METHANANDA]; National Unity Alliance or NUA [Ferial ASHRAFF]; People's Liberation Organization of Tamil Eelam or PLOTE [D. SIDHARTHAN]; Sri Lanka Freedom Party or SLFP [Mahinda RAJAPAKSA]; Sri Lanka Muslim Congress or SLMC [Rauff HAKEEM]; Tamil Eelam Liberation Organization or TELO [Selvam ADAIKALANATHAN]; Tamil National Alliance or TNA [R. SAMPANTHAN]; Tamil United Liberation Front or TULF [V. ANANDASANGAREE]; United National Party or UNP [Ranil WICKREMASINGHE]; Up-country People's Front or UPF [P. CHANDRASEKARAN] 
				Sudan
			National Congress Party or NCP [Umar Hassan al-BASHIR]; Sudan People's Liberation Movement or SPLM [Salva KIIR]; and elements of the National Democratic Alliance or NDA including factions of the Democratic Union Party [Muhammad Uthman al-MIRGHANI] and Umma Party [SADIQ Siddiq al-Mahdi]; Popular Congress Party or PCP [Hassan al-TURABI] 
				Suriname
			Alternative-1 or A-1 (a coalition of Amazone Party of Suriname or APS [Kenneth VAN GENDEREN], Democrats of the 21st Century or D-21 [Soewarto MOESTADJA], Nieuw Suriname or NS [Radjen Nanan PANDAY], Political Wing of the FAL or PVF [Jiwan SITAL], Trefpunt 2000 or T-2000 [Arti JESSURUN]); General Interior Development Party or ABOP [Ronnie BRUNSWIJK]; National Democratic Party or NDP [Desire BOUTERSE]; New Front for Democracy and Development or NF (a coalition that includes A-Combination or A-Com, Democratic Alternative 1991 or DA-91, an independent, business-oriented party [Winston JESSURUN], National Party Suriname or NPS [Ronald VENETIAAN], United Reform Party or VHP [Ramdien SARDJOE], Pertjaja Luhur or PL [Salam Paul SOMOHARDJO], Surinamese Labor Party or SPA [Siegfried GILDS]); Party for Democracy and Development in Unity or DOE [Marten SCHALKWIJK]; People's Alliance for Progress or VVV (a coalition of Democratic National Platform 2000 or DNP-2000 [Jules WIJDENBOSCH], Grassroots Party for Renewal and Democracy or BVD [Tjan GOBARDHAN], Party for National Unity and Solidarity of the Highest Order or KTPI [Willy SOEMITA], Party for Progression, Justice, and Perseverance or PPRS [Renee KAIMAN], Pendawalima or PL [Raymond SAPOEN]); Progressive Laborers and Farmers Union or PALU [Jim HOK]; Progressive Political Party or PPP [Surinder MUNGRA]; Seeka [Paul ABENA]; Union of Progressive Surinamers or UPS [Sheoradj PANDAY] 
				Swaziland
			the status of political parties, previously banned, is unclear under the new (2006) Constitution and currently being debated - the following are considered political associations; African United Democratic Party or AUDP [Stanley MAUNDZISA, president]; Imbokodvo National Movement or INM; Ngwane National Liberatory Congress or NNLC [Obed DLAMINI, president]; People's United Democratic Movement or PUDEMO [Mario MASUKU, president] 
				Sweden
			Center Party [Maud OLOFSSON]; Christian Democratic Party [Goran HAGGLUND]; Environment Party the Greens [no formal leader but party spokespersons are Maria WETTERSTRAND and Peter ERIKSSON]; Left Party or V (formerly Communist) [Lars OHLY]; Liberal People's Party [Jan BJORKLUND]; Moderate Party (conservative) [Fredrik REINFELDT]; Social Democratic Party [Mona SAHLIN] 
				Switzerland
			Green Party (Gruene Partei der Schweiz or Gruene, Parti Ecologiste Suisse or Les Verts, Partito Ecologista Svizzero or I Verdi, Partida Ecologica Svizra or La Verda) [Ueli LEUENBERGER]; Christian Democratic People's Party (Christlichdemokratische Volkspartei der Schweiz or CVP, Parti Democrate-Chretien Suisse or PDC, Partito Democratico-Cristiano Popolare Svizzero or PDC, Partida Cristiandemocratica dalla Svizra or PCD) [Christophe DARBELLAY]; Radical Free Democratic Party (Freisinnig-Demokratische Partei der Schweiz or FDP, Parti Radical-Democratique Suisse or PRD, Partitio Liberal-Radicale Svizzero or PLR) [Fulvio PELLI]; Social Democratic Party (Sozialdemokratische Partei der Schweiz or SPS, Parti Socialist Suisse or PSS, Partito Socialista Svizzero or PSS, Partida Socialdemocratica de la Svizra or PSS) [Christian LEVRAT]; Swiss People's Party (Schweizerische Volkspartei or SVP, Union Democratique du Centre or UDC, Unione Democratica de Centro or UDC, Uniun Democratica dal Center or UDC) [Toni BRUNNER]; and other minor parties 
				Syria
				legal parties: National Progressive Front or NPF [President Bashar al-ASAD, Dr. Suleiman QADDAH] (includes Arab Socialist Renaissance (Ba'th) Party [President Bashar al-ASAD]; Socialist Unionist Democratic Party [Fadlallah Nasr Al-DIN]; Syrian Arab Socialist Union or ASU [Safwan QUDSI]; Syrian Communist Party (two branches) [Wissal Farha BAKDASH, Yusuf Rashid FAYSAL]; Syrian Social Nationalist Party [Ali QANSU]; Unionist Socialist Party [Fayez ISMAIL]) 
				opposition parties not legally recognized: Arab Democratic Socialist Union Party [Hasan Abdul AZIM]; Arab Socialist Movement; Democratic Ba'th Party [Ibrahim MAHKOS]; National Democratic Front [Hasan Abdul AZIM, spokesman] (includes five parties - Arab Democratic Socialist Union Party [Hasan Abdul AZIM], Arab Socialist Movement, Democratic Ba'th Party [Ibrahim MAHKOS], People's Democratic Party [Riad al TURK], Revolutionary Workers' Party [Abdul Hafeez al HAFEZ]); People's Democratic Party; Revolutionary Workers' Party [Abdul Hafeez al HAFEZ] 
				Kurdish parties (considered illegal): Azadi Party [Kheirudin MURAD]; Future Party [Masha'l TAMMO]; Kurdish Democratic Alliance (includes four parties); Kurdish Democratic Front (includes three parties); Yekiti Party [Hasan SALEH, Fu'ad ALEYKO] 
				other parties: Nahda Party [Abdul Aziz al MISLET]; Syrian Democratic Party [Mustafa QALAAJI] 
				Taiwan
			Democratic Progressive Party or DPP [TSAI Ing-wen]; Kuomintang or KMT (Nationalist Party) [WU Po-hsiung]; Non-Partisan Solidarity Union or NPSU [LIN Pin-kuan]; People First Party or PFP [James SOONG] 
				Tajikistan
			Agrarian Party of Tajikistan or APT [Amir QARAQULOV]; Democratic Party or DPT [Mahmadruzi ISKANDAROV (imprisoned October 2005); Rahmatullo VALIYEV, deputy]; Islamic Revival Party [Muhiddin KABIRI]; Party of Economic Reform or PER [Olimjon BOBOEV]; People's Democratic Party of Tajikistan or PDPT [Emomali RAHMON]; Social Democratic Party or SDPT [Rahmatullo ZOYIROV]; Socialist Party or SPT [Mirhuseyn NARZIEV]; Tajik Communist Party or CPT [Shodi SHABDOLOV] 
				Tanzania
			Chama Cha Demokrasia na Maendeleo (Party of Democracy and Development) or CHADEMA [Bob MAKANI]; Chama Cha Mapinduzi or CCM (Revolutionary Party) [Jakaya Mrisho KIKWETE]; Civic United Front or CUF [Ibrahim LIPUMBA]; Democratic Party [Christopher MTIKLA] (unregistered); Tanzania Labor Party or TLP [Augustine Lyatonga MREME]; United Democratic Party or UDP [John CHEYO] 
				Thailand
			Chat Thai Phattana Party or CP (Thai Nation Development Party) [CHUMPOL Silpa-archa]; Democrat Party or DP (Prachathipat Party) [ABHISIT Wetchachiwa, also spelled ABHISIT Vejjajiva]; Motherland Party (Pheua Phaendin Party) [PRACHA Phromnok]; Phuea Thai Party (For Thais Party) or PTP [YONGYUT Wichaidit]; Phumchai (Bhumjai) Thai Party or BJT (Thai Pride) [CHAVARAT Charnvirakul]; Royalist People's Party (Pracharaj) [SANOH Thienthong]; Ruam Jai Thai Party (Thai Unity Party) [WANNARAT Channukul] 
				Timor-Leste
			Democratic Party or PD [Fernando de ARAUJO]; National Congress for Timorese Reconstruction or CNRT [Xanana GUSMAO]; National Democratic Union of Timorese Resistance or UNDERTIM [Cornelio DA Conceicao GAMA]; National Unity Party or PUN [Fernanda BORGES]; People's Party of Timor or PPT [Jacob XAVIER]; Revolutionary Front of Independent Timor-Leste or FRETILIN [Mari ALKATIRI]; Social Democratic Association of Timor or ASDT [Francisco Xavier do AMARAL]; Social Democratic Party or PSD [Zacarias Albano da COSTA]; Sons of the Mountain Warriors or KOTA [Manuel TILMAN] (also known as Association of Timorese Heroes) 
				Togo
			Action Committee for Renewal or CAR [Yawovi AGBOYIBO]; Democratic Convention of African Peoples or CDPA; Democratic Party for Renewal or PDR; Juvento [Monsilia DJATO]; Movement of the Believers of Peace and Equality or MOCEP; Pan-African Patriotic Convergence or CPP; Rally for the Support for Development and Democracy or RSDD [Harry OLYMPIO]; Rally of the Togolese People or RPT [Faure GNASSINGBE]; Socialist Pact for Renewal or PSR; Union for Democracy and Social Progress or UDPS [Gagou KOKOU]; Union of Forces for a Change or UFC [Gilchrist OLYMPIO] 
				Tokelau
			none 
				Tonga
			Tonga Human Rights and Democracy Movement or THRDM [Uliti UATA]; People's Democratic Party or PDP [Tesina FUKO] 
				Trinidad and Tobago
			Congress of the People [Winston DOOKERAN]; Democratic Action Congress or DAC [Hochoy CHARLES] (only active in Tobago); Democratic National Alliance or DNA [Gerald YETMING] (coalition of NAR, DDPT, MND); Movement for National Development or MND [Garvin NICHOLAS]; National Alliance for Reconstruction or NAR [Dr. Carson CHARLES]; People's National Movement or PNM [Patrick MANNING]; United National Congress or UNC [Basdeo PANDAY] 
				Tunisia
			Al-Tajdid Movement [Ahmed IBRAHIM]; Constitutional Democratic Rally Party (Rassemblement Constitutionnel Democratique) or RCD (official ruling party) [President Zine El Abidine BEN ALI]; Democratic Forum for Labor and Liberties or FDTL [Mustapha Ben JAFAAR]; Green Party for Progress or PVP [Mongi KHAMASSI]; Liberal Social Party or PSL [Mondher THABET]; Movement of Socialist Democrats or MDS [Ismail BOULAHYA]; Popular Unity Party or PUP [Mohamed BOUCHIHA]; Progressive Democratic Party [Maya JERIBI]; Unionist Democratic Union or UDU [Ahmed INOUBLI]; note - the Islamist party, Al Nahda (Renaissance), is outlawed 
				Turkey
			Anavatan Partisi (Motherland Party) or Anavatan [Erkan MUMCU]; note - True Path Party or DYP has merged with the Motherland Party; Democratic Left Party or DSP [Zeki SEZER]; Democratic Society Party or DTP [Ahmet TURK]; Felicity Party or SP [Numan KURTULMUS] (sometimes translated as Contentment Party); Freedom and Solidarity Party or ODP [Hayri KOZANOGLU]; Grand Unity Party or BBP [Mushin YAZICIOGLU]; Justice and Development Party or AKP [Recep Tayyip ERDOGAN]; Nationalist Movement Party or MHP [Devlet BAHCELI] (sometimes translated as Nationalist Action Party); People's Rise Party (Halkin Yukselisi Partisi) or HYP [Yasar Nuri OZTURK]; Republican People's Party or CHP [Deniz BAYKAL]; Social Democratic People's Party or SHP [Ugur CILASUN (acting)]; Young Party or GP [Cem Cengiz UZAN] 
				note: the parties listed above are some of the more significant of the 49 parties that Turkey had as of 31 January 2009 
				Turkmenistan
			Democratic Party of Turkmenistan or DPT [Gurbanguly BERDIMUHAMEDOW] 
				note: formal opposition parties are outlawed; unofficial, small opposition movements exist abroad; the three most prominent opposition groups-in-exile are the National Democratic Movement of Turkmenistan (NDMT), the Republican Party of Turkmenistan, and the Watan (Fatherland) Party; the NDMT was led by former Foreign Minister Boris SHIKHMURADOV until his arrest and imprisonment in the wake of the 25 November 2002 attack on President NYYAZOW's motorcade 
				Turks and Caicos Islands
			People's Democratic Movement or PDM [Floyd SEYMOUR]; Progressive National Party or PNP [Michael Eugene MISICK] 
				Tuvalu
			there are no political parties but members of Parliament usually align themselves in informal groupings 
				Uganda
			Conservative Party or CP [Ken LUKYAMUZI]; Democratic Party or DP [Kizito SSEBAANA]; Forum for Democratic Change or FDC [Kizza BESIGYE]; Justice Forum or JEEMA [Muhammad Kibirige MAYANJA]; National Resistance Movement or NRM [Yoweri MUSEVENI]; Peoples Progressive Party or PPP [Bidandi SSALI]; Ugandan People's Congress or UPC [Miria OBOTE] 
				note: a national referendum in July 2005 opened the way for Uganda's transition to a multi-party political system 
				Ukraine
			Christian Democratic Union [Volodymyr STRETOVYCH]; Communist Party of Ukraine or CPU [Petro SYMONENKO]; European Party of Ukraine [Mykola KATERYNCHUK]; Fatherland Party (Batkivshchyna) [Yuliya TYMOSHENKO]; Forward Ukraine! [Viktor MUSIYAKA]; Labor Party of Ukraine [Mykola SYROTA]; People's Union Our Ukraine [Viktor YUSHCHENKO]; Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs [Anatoliy KINAKH]; Party of the Defenders of the Fatherland [Yuriy Karmazin]; People's Movement of Ukraine (Rukh) [Borys TARASYUK]; People's Party [Volodymyr LYTVYN]; Peoples' Self-Defense [Yuriy LUTSENKO]; PORA! (It's Time!) party [Vladyslav KASKIV]; Progressive Socialist Party [Natalya VITRENKO]; Reforms and Order Party [Viktor PYNZENYK]; Party of Regions [Viktor YANUKOVYCH]; Sobor [Anatoliy MATVIYENKO]; Social Democratic Party [Yevhen KORNICHUK]; Social Democratic Party (United) or SDPU(o) [Yuriy ZAHORODNIY]; Socialist Party of Ukraine or SPU [Oleksandr MOROZ]; Ukrainian People's Party [Yuriy KOSTENKO]; United Center [Ihor Krill]; Viche [Inna BOHOSLOVSKA] 
				United Arab Emirates
			none; political parties are not allowed 
				United Kingdom
			Conservative [David CAMERON]; Democratic Unionist Party (Northern Ireland) [Peter ROBINSON]; Labor Party [Gordon BROWN]; Liberal Democrats [Nick CLEGG]; Party of Wales (Plaid Cymru) [Ieuan Wyn JONES]; Scottish National Party or SNP [Alex SALMOND]; Sinn Fein (Northern Ireland) [Gerry ADAMS]; Social Democratic and Labor Party or SDLP (Northern Ireland) [Mark DURKAN]; Ulster Unionist Party (Northern Ireland) [Sir Reg EMPEY] 
				United States
			Democratic Party [Timothy KAINE]; Green Party; Libertarian Party [William (Bill) REDPATH]; Republican Party [Michael STEELE] 
				Uruguay
			Broad Front (Frente Amplio) - formerly known as the Progressive Encounter/Broad Front Coalition or EP-FA [Jorge BROVETTO] (a broad governing coalition that includes Movement of the Popular Participation or MPP [Jose MUJICA], New Space Party (Nuevo Espacio) [Rafael MICHELINI], Progressive Alliance (Alianza Progresista) [Rodolfo NIN NOVOA], Socialist Party [Eduardo FERNANDEZ], the Communist Party [Marina ARISMENDI], Uruguayan Assembly (Asamblea Uruguay) [Danilo ASTORI], and Vertiente Artiguista [Mariano ARANA]); Colorado Party (Foro Batllista) [Julio Maria SANGUINETTI]; National Party or Blanco [Luis Alberto LACALLE and Jorge LARRANAGA] 
				Uzbekistan
			Adolat (Justice) Social Democratic Party [Dilorom TOSHMUHAMEDOVA]; Democratic National Rebirth Party (Milliy Tiklanish) or MTP [Hurshid DOSMUHAMMEDOV]; Fidokorlar National Democratic Party (Self-Sacrificers) [Ahtam TURSUNOV]; Liberal Democratic Party of Uzbekistan or LDPU [Adham SHADMANOV; People's Democratic Party or NDP (formerly Communist Party) [Asliddin RUSTAMOV] 
				Vanuatu
			Greens Confederation or GC [Moana CARCASSES]; Jon Frum Movement or JF [Song KEASPAI]; Melanesian Progressive Party or MPP [Barak SOPE]; Nagriamel movement or NAG [Havo MOLI]; Namangi Aute or NA [Paul TELUKLUK]; National United Party or NUP [Ham LINI]; People's Action Party or PAP [Peter VUTA]; People's Progressive Party or PPP [Sato KILMAN]; Shepherds Alliance Party [leader NA]; Union of Moderate Parties or UMP [Serge VOHOR]; Vanuatu Family First Party or VFFP [Eta RORI]; Vanuatu Labor Party or VLP [Joshua KALSAKAU]; Vanuatu National Party or VNP [Issac HAMARILIU]; Vanua'aku Pati (Our Land Party) or VP [Edward NATAPEI]; Vanuatu Republican Party or VRP [Maxime Carlot KORMAN]; Vanuatu Republican Farmers Party or VPRFP [Jean RAVOU] 
				Venezuela
			A New Time or UNT [Manuel ROSALES]; Christian Democrats or COPEI [Cesar PEREZ Vivas]; Communist Party of Venezuela or PCV [Jeronimo CARRERA]; Democratic Action or AD [Henry RAMOS Allup]; Fatherland for All or PPT [Jose ALBORNOZ]; Justice First [Julio BORGES]; Movement Toward Socialism or MAS [Hector MUJICA]; United Socialist Party of Venezuela or PSUV [Hugo CHAVEZ]; Venezuela Project or PV [Henrique SALAS Romer]; We Can or PODEMOS [Ismael GARCIA] 
				Vietnam
			Communist Party of Vietnam or CPV [Nong Duc MANH]; other parties proscribed 
				Virgin Islands
			Democratic Party [Arturo WATLINGTON]; Independent Citizens' Movement or ICM [Usie RICHARDS]; Republican Party [Gary SPRAUVE] 
				Wallis and Futuna
			Lua Kae Tahi (Giscardians); Mouvement des Radicaux de Gauche or MRG; Rally for the Republic or RPR (UMP) [Clovis LOGOLOGOFOLAU]; Socialist Party or PS; Taumu'a Lelei [Soane Muni UHILA]; Union Populaire Locale or UPL [Falakiko GATA]; Union Pour la Democratie Francaise or UDF 
				Yemen
			General People's Congress or GPC [Abdul-Kader BAJAMMAL]; Islamic Reform Grouping or Islah [Mohammed Abdullah AL-YADOUMI (acting)]; Nasserite Unionist Party [Abdal Malik al-MAKHLAFI]; National Arab Socialist Ba'th Party [Dr. Qasim SALAM]; Yemeni Socialist Party or YSP [Ali Salih MUQBIL]; note - there are at least seven more active political parties 
				Zambia
			Forum for Democracy and Development or FDD [Edith NAWAKWI]; Heritage Party or HP [Godfrey MIYANDA]; Movement for Multiparty Democracy or MMD [vacant]; Patriotic Front or PF [Michael SATA]; Party of Unity for Democracy and Development or PUDD [Dan PULE]; Reform Party [Nevers MUMBA]; United Democratic Alliance or UDA (a coalition of RP, ZADECO, PUDD, and ZRP); United Liberal Party or ULP [Sakwiba SIKOTA]; United National Independence Party or UNIP [Tilyenji KAUNDA]; United Party for National Development or UPND [Hakainde HICHILEMA]; Zambia Democratic Congress or ZADECO [Langton SICHONE]; Zambian Republican Party or ZRP [Benjamin MWILA] 
				Zimbabwe
			African National Party or ANP [Egypt DZINEMUNHENZVA]; Movement for Democratic Change or MDC [Morgan TSVANGIRAI, Arthur MUTAMBARA, splinter faction]; Peace Action is Freedom for All or PAFA; United Parties [Abel MUZOREWA]; United People's Party or UPP [Daniel SHUMBA]; Zimbabwe African National Union-Ndonga or ZANU-Ndonga [Wilson KUMBULA]; Zimbabwe African National Union-Patriotic Front or ZANU-PF [Robert Gabriel MUGABE]; Zimbabwe African Peoples Union or ZAPU [Agrippa MADLELA]; Zimbabwe Youth in Alliance or ZIYA  		
				This page was last updated on 19 March 2009
&nbsp; 
CIA - The World Factbook -- Field Listing - Natural resources
&nbsp; 
				    &nbsp; 
                    Field Listing - Natural resources
         Home 
          &nbsp;Reference Maps 
          &nbsp;Appendixes 
			Country
			Natural resources 	
				Afghanistan
			natural gas, petroleum, coal, copper, chromite, talc, barites, sulfur, lead, zinc, iron ore, salt, precious and semiprecious stones 
				Albania
			petroleum, natural gas, coal, bauxite, chromite, copper, iron ore, nickel, salt, timber, hydropower 
				Algeria
			petroleum, natural gas, iron ore, phosphates, uranium, lead, zinc 
				American Samoa
			pumice, pumicite 
				Andorra
			hydropower, mineral water, timber, iron ore, lead 
				Angola
			petroleum, diamonds, iron ore, phosphates, copper, feldspar, gold, bauxite, uranium 
				Anguilla
			salt, fish, lobster 
				Antarctica
			iron ore, chromium, copper, gold, nickel, platinum and other minerals, and coal and hydrocarbons have been found in small uncommercial quantities; none presently exploited; krill, finfish, and crab have been taken by commercial fisheries 
				Antigua and Barbuda
			NEGL; pleasant climate fosters tourism 
				Arctic Ocean
			sand and gravel aggregates, placer deposits, polymetallic nodules, oil and gas fields, fish, marine mammals (seals and whales) 
				Argentina
			fertile plains of the pampas, lead, zinc, tin, copper, iron ore, manganese, petroleum, uranium 
				Armenia
			small deposits of gold, copper, molybdenum, zinc, bauxite 
				Aruba
			NEGL; white sandy beaches 
				Ashmore and Cartier Islands
			fish 
				Atlantic Ocean
			oil and gas fields, fish, marine mammals (seals and whales), sand and gravel aggregates, placer deposits, polymetallic nodules, precious stones 
				Australia
			bauxite, coal, iron ore, copper, tin, gold, silver, uranium, nickel, tungsten, mineral sands, lead, zinc, diamonds, natural gas, petroleum 
				note: Australia is the world's largest net exporter of coal accounting for 29% of global coal exports 
				Austria
			oil, coal, lignite, timber, iron ore, copper, zinc, antimony, magnesite, tungsten, graphite, salt, hydropower 
				Azerbaijan
			petroleum, natural gas, iron ore, nonferrous metals, bauxite 
				Bahamas, The
			salt, aragonite, timber, arable land 
				Bahrain
			oil, associated and nonassociated natural gas, fish, pearls 
				Bangladesh
			natural gas, arable land, timber, coal 
				Barbados
			petroleum, fish, natural gas 
				Belarus
			forests, peat deposits, small quantities of oil and natural gas, granite, dolomitic limestone, marl, chalk, sand, gravel, clay 
				Belgium
			construction materials, silica sand, carbonates 
				Belize
			arable land potential, timber, fish, hydropower 
				Benin
			small offshore oil deposits, limestone, marble, timber 
				Bermuda
			limestone, pleasant climate fostering tourism 
				Bhutan
			timber, hydropower, gypsum, calcium carbonate 
				Bolivia
			tin, natural gas, petroleum, zinc, tungsten, antimony, silver, iron, lead, gold, timber, hydropower 
				Bosnia and Herzegovina
			coal, iron ore, bauxite, copper, lead, zinc, chromite, cobalt, manganese, nickel, clay, gypsum, salt, sand, forests, hydropower 
				Botswana
			diamonds, copper, nickel, salt, soda ash, potash, coal, iron ore, silver 
				Bouvet Island
			none 
				Brazil
			bauxite, gold, iron ore, manganese, nickel, phosphates, platinum, tin, uranium, petroleum, hydropower, timber 
				British Indian Ocean Territory
			coconuts, fish, sugarcane 
				British Virgin Islands
			NEGL 
				Brunei
			petroleum, natural gas, timber 
				Bulgaria
			bauxite, copper, lead, zinc, coal, timber, arable land 
				Burkina Faso
			manganese, limestone, marble; small deposits of gold, phosphates, pumice, salt 
				Burma
			petroleum, timber, tin, antimony, zinc, copper, tungsten, lead, coal, marble, limestone, precious stones, natural gas, hydropower 
				Burundi
			nickel, uranium, rare earth oxides, peat, cobalt, copper, platinum, vanadium, arable land, hydropower, niobium, tantalum, gold, tin, tungsten, kaolin, limestone 
				Cambodia
			oil and gas, timber, gemstones, iron ore, manganese, phosphates, hydropower potential 
				Cameroon
			petroleum, bauxite, iron ore, timber, hydropower 
				Canada
			iron ore, nickel, zinc, copper, gold, lead, molybdenum, potash, diamonds, silver, fish, timber, wildlife, coal, petroleum, natural gas, hydropower 
				Cape Verde
			salt, basalt rock, limestone, kaolin, fish, clay, gypsum 
				Cayman Islands
			fish, climate and beaches that foster tourism 
				Central African Republic
			diamonds, uranium, timber, gold, oil, hydropower 
				Chad
			petroleum, uranium, natron, kaolin, fish (Lake Chad), gold, limestone, sand and gravel, salt 
				Chile
			copper, timber, iron ore, nitrates, precious metals, molybdenum, hydropower 
				China
			coal, iron ore, petroleum, natural gas, mercury, tin, tungsten, antimony, manganese, molybdenum, vanadium, magnetite, aluminum, lead, zinc, uranium, hydropower potential (world's largest) 
				Christmas Island
			phosphate, beaches 
				Clipperton Island
			fish 
				Cocos (Keeling) Islands
			fish 
				Colombia
			petroleum, natural gas, coal, iron ore, nickel, gold, copper, emeralds, hydropower 
				Comoros
			NEGL 
				Congo, Democratic Republic of the
			cobalt, copper, niobium, tantalum, petroleum, industrial and gem diamonds, gold, silver, zinc, manganese, tin, uranium, coal, hydropower, timber 
				Congo, Republic of the
			petroleum, timber, potash, lead, zinc, uranium, copper, phosphates, gold, magnesium, natural gas, hydropower 
				Cook Islands
			NEGL 
				Coral Sea Islands
			NEGL 
				Costa Rica
			hydropower 
				Cote d'Ivoire
			petroleum, natural gas, diamonds, manganese, iron ore, cobalt, bauxite, copper, gold, nickel, tantalum, silica sand, clay, cocoa beans, coffee, palm oil, hydropower 
				Croatia
			oil, some coal, bauxite, low-grade iron ore, calcium, gypsum, natural asphalt, silica, mica, clays, salt, hydropower 
				Cuba
			cobalt, nickel, iron ore, chromium, copper, salt, timber, silica, petroleum, arable land 
				Cyprus
			copper, pyrites, asbestos, gypsum, timber, salt, marble, clay earth pigment 
				Czech Republic
			hard coal, soft coal, kaolin, clay, graphite, timber 
				Denmark
			petroleum, natural gas, fish, salt, limestone, chalk, stone, gravel and sand 
				Djibouti
			geothermal areas, gold, clay, granite, limestone, marble, salt, diatomite, gypsum, pumice, petroleum 
				Dominica
			timber, hydropower, arable land 
				Dominican Republic
			nickel, bauxite, gold, silver 
				Ecuador
			petroleum, fish, timber, hydropower 
				Egypt
			petroleum, natural gas, iron ore, phosphates, manganese, limestone, gypsum, talc, asbestos, lead, zinc 
				El Salvador
			hydropower, geothermal power, petroleum, arable land 
				Equatorial Guinea
			petroleum, natural gas, timber, gold, bauxite, diamonds, tantalum, sand and gravel, clay 
				Eritrea
			gold, potash, zinc, copper, salt, possibly oil and natural gas, fish 
				Estonia
			oil shale, peat, phosphorite, clay, limestone, sand, dolomite, arable land, sea mud 
				Ethiopia
			small reserves of gold, platinum, copper, potash, natural gas, hydropower 
				European Union
			iron ore, natural gas, petroleum, coal, copper, lead, zinc, bauxite, uranium, potash, salt, hydropower, arable land, timber, fish 
				Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas)
			fish, squid, wildlife, calcified seaweed, sphagnum moss 
				Faroe Islands
			fish, whales, hydropower, possible oil and gas 
				Fiji
			timber, fish, gold, copper, offshore oil potential, hydropower 
				Finland
			timber, iron ore, copper, lead, zinc, chromite, nickel, gold, silver, limestone 
				France
				metropolitan France: coal, iron ore, bauxite, zinc, uranium, antimony, arsenic, potash, feldspar, fluorspar, gypsum, timber, fish 
				French Guiana: gold deposits, petroleum, kaolin, niobium, tantalum, clay 
				French Polynesia
			timber, fish, cobalt, hydropower 
				French Southern and Antarctic Lands
			fish, crayfish 
				note: Glorioso Islands and Tromelin Island (Iles Eparses) have guano, phosphates, and coconuts 
				Gabon
			petroleum, natural gas, diamond, niobium, manganese, uranium, gold, timber, iron ore, hydropower 
				Gambia, The
			fish, titanium (rutile and ilmenite), tin, zircon, silica sand, clay, petroleum 
				Gaza Strip
			arable land, natural gas 
				Georgia
			forests, hydropower, manganese deposits, iron ore, copper, minor coal and oil deposits; coastal climate and soils allow for important tea and citrus growth 
				Germany
			coal, lignite, natural gas, iron ore, copper, nickel, uranium, potash, salt, construction materials, timber, arable land 
				Ghana
			gold, timber, industrial diamonds, bauxite, manganese, fish, rubber, hydropower, petroleum, silver, salt, limestone 
				Gibraltar
			none 
				Greece
			lignite, petroleum, iron ore, bauxite, lead, zinc, nickel, magnesite, marble, salt, hydropower potential 
				Greenland
			coal, iron ore, lead, zinc, molybdenum, diamonds, gold, platinum, niobium, tantalite, uranium, fish, seals, whales, hydropower, possible oil and gas 
				Grenada
			timber, tropical fruit, deepwater harbors 
				Guam
			aquatic wildlife (supporting tourism), fishing (largely undeveloped) 
				Guatemala
			petroleum, nickel, rare woods, fish, chicle, hydropower 
				Guernsey
			cropland 
				Guinea
			bauxite, iron ore, diamonds, gold, uranium, hydropower, fish, salt 
				Guinea-Bissau
			fish, timber, phosphates, bauxite, clay, granite, limestone, unexploited deposits of petroleum 
				Guyana
			bauxite, gold, diamonds, hardwood timber, shrimp, fish 
				Haiti
			bauxite, copper, calcium carbonate, gold, marble, hydropower 
				Heard Island and McDonald Islands
			fish 
				Holy See (Vatican City)
			none 
				Honduras
			timber, gold, silver, copper, lead, zinc, iron ore, antimony, coal, fish, hydropower 
				Hong Kong
			outstanding deepwater harbor, feldspar 
				Hungary
			bauxite, coal, natural gas, fertile soils, arable land 
				Iceland
			fish, hydropower, geothermal power, diatomite 
				India
			coal (fourth-largest reserves in the world), iron ore, manganese, mica, bauxite, titanium ore, chromite, natural gas, diamonds, petroleum, limestone, arable land 
				Indian Ocean
			oil and gas fields, fish, shrimp, sand and gravel aggregates, placer deposits, polymetallic nodules 
				Indonesia
			petroleum, tin, natural gas, nickel, timber, bauxite, copper, fertile soils, coal, gold, silver 
				Iran
			petroleum, natural gas, coal, chromium, copper, iron ore, lead, manganese, zinc, sulfur 
				Iraq
			petroleum, natural gas, phosphates, sulfur 
				Ireland
			natural gas, peat, copper, lead, zinc, silver, barite, gypsum, limestone, dolomite 
				Isle of Man
			none 
				Israel
			timber, potash, copper ore, natural gas, phosphate rock, magnesium bromide, clays, sand 
				Italy
			coal, mercury, zinc, potash, marble, barite, asbestos, pumice, fluorspar, feldspar, pyrite (sulfur), natural gas and crude oil reserves, fish, arable land 
				Jamaica
			bauxite, gypsum, limestone 
				Jan Mayen
			none 
				Japan
			negligible mineral resources, fish 
				note: with virtually no energy natural resources, Japan is the world's largest importer of coal and liquefied natural gas as well as the second largest importer of oil 
				Jersey
			arable land 
				Jordan
			phosphates, potash, shale oil 
				Kazakhstan
			major deposits of petroleum, natural gas, coal, iron ore, manganese, chrome ore, nickel, cobalt, copper, molybdenum, lead, zinc, bauxite, gold, uranium 
				Kenya
			limestone, soda ash, salt, gemstones, fluorspar, zinc, diatomite, gypsum, wildlife, hydropower 
				Kiribati
			phosphate (production discontinued in 1979) 
				Korea, North
			coal, lead, tungsten, zinc, graphite, magnesite, iron ore, copper, gold, pyrites, salt, fluorspar, hydropower 
				Korea, South
			coal, tungsten, graphite, molybdenum, lead, hydropower potential 
				Kosovo
			nickel, lead, zinc, magnesium, lignite, kaolin, chrome, bauxite 
				Kuwait
			petroleum, fish, shrimp, natural gas 
				Kyrgyzstan
			abundant hydropower; significant deposits of gold and rare earth metals; locally exploitable coal, oil, and natural gas; other deposits of nepheline, mercury, bismuth, lead, and zinc 
				Laos
			timber, hydropower, gypsum, tin, gold, gemstones 
				Latvia
			peat, limestone, dolomite, amber, hydropower, wood, arable land 
				Lebanon
			limestone, iron ore, salt, water-surplus state in a water-deficit region, arable land 
				Lesotho
			water, agricultural and grazing land, diamonds, sand, clay, building stone 
				Liberia
			iron ore, timber, diamonds, gold, hydropower 
				Libya
			petroleum, natural gas, gypsum 
				Liechtenstein
			hydroelectric potential, arable land 
				Lithuania
			peat, arable land, amber 
				Luxembourg
			iron ore (no longer exploited), arable land 
				Macau
			NEGL 
				Macedonia
			low-grade iron ore, copper, lead, zinc, chromite, manganese, nickel, tungsten, gold, silver, asbestos, gypsum, timber, arable land 
				Madagascar
			graphite, chromite, coal, bauxite, salt, quartz, tar sands, semiprecious stones, mica, fish, hydropower 
				Malawi
			limestone, arable land, hydropower, unexploited deposits of uranium, coal, and bauxite 
				Malaysia
			tin, petroleum, timber, copper, iron ore, natural gas, bauxite 
				Maldives
			fish 
				Mali
			gold, phosphates, kaolin, salt, limestone, uranium, gypsum, granite, hydropower 
				note: bauxite, iron ore, manganese, tin, and copper deposits are known but not exploited 
				Malta
			limestone, salt, arable land 
				Marshall Islands
			coconut products, marine products, deep seabed minerals 
				Mauritania
			iron ore, gypsum, copper, phosphate, diamonds, gold, oil, fish 
				Mauritius
			arable land, fish 
				Mayotte
			NEGL 
				Mexico
			petroleum, silver, copper, gold, lead, zinc, natural gas, timber 
				Micronesia, Federated States of
			forests, marine products, deep-seabed minerals, phosphate 
				Moldova
			lignite, phosphorites, gypsum, arable land, limestone 
				Monaco
			none 
				Mongolia
			oil, coal, copper, molybdenum, tungsten, phosphates, tin, nickel, zinc, fluorspar, gold, silver, iron 
				Montenegro
			bauxite, hydroelectricity 
				Montserrat
			NEGL 
				Morocco
			phosphates, iron ore, manganese, lead, zinc, fish, salt 
				Mozambique
			coal, titanium, natural gas, hydropower, tantalum, graphite 
				Namibia
			diamonds, copper, uranium, gold, silver, lead, tin, lithium, cadmium, tungsten, zinc, salt, hydropower, fish 
				note: suspected deposits of oil, coal, and iron ore 
				Nauru
			phosphates, fish 
				Navassa Island
			guano 
				Nepal
			quartz, water, timber, hydropower, scenic beauty, small deposits of lignite, copper, cobalt, iron ore 
				Netherlands
			natural gas, petroleum, peat, limestone, salt, sand and gravel, arable land 
				Netherlands Antilles
			phosphates (Curacao only), salt (Bonaire only) 
				New Caledonia
			nickel, chrome, iron, cobalt, manganese, silver, gold, lead, copper 
				New Zealand
			natural gas, iron ore, sand, coal, timber, hydropower, gold, limestone 
				Nicaragua
			gold, silver, copper, tungsten, lead, zinc, timber, fish 
				Niger
			uranium, coal, iron ore, tin, phosphates, gold, molybdenum, gypsum, salt, petroleum 
				Nigeria
			natural gas, petroleum, tin, iron ore, coal, limestone, niobium, lead, zinc, arable land 
				Niue
			fish, arable land 
				Norfolk Island
			fish 
				Northern Mariana Islands
			arable land, fish 
				Norway
			petroleum, natural gas, iron ore, copper, lead, zinc, titanium, pyrites, nickel, fish, timber, hydropower 
				Oman
			petroleum, copper, asbestos, some marble, limestone, chromium, gypsum, natural gas 
				Pacific Ocean
			oil and gas fields, polymetallic nodules, sand and gravel aggregates, placer deposits, fish 
				Pakistan
			land, extensive natural gas reserves, limited petroleum, poor quality coal, iron ore, copper, salt, limestone 
				Palau
			forests, minerals (especially gold), marine products, deep-seabed minerals 
				Panama
			copper, mahogany forests, shrimp, hydropower 
				Papua New Guinea
			gold, copper, silver, natural gas, timber, oil, fisheries 
				Paracel Islands
			none 
				Paraguay
			hydropower, timber, iron ore, manganese, limestone 
				Peru
			copper, silver, gold, petroleum, timber, fish, iron ore, coal, phosphate, potash, hydropower, natural gas 
				Philippines
			timber, petroleum, nickel, cobalt, silver, gold, salt, copper 
				Pitcairn Islands
			miro trees (used for handicrafts), fish 
				note: manganese, iron, copper, gold, silver, and zinc have been discovered offshore 
				Poland
			coal, sulfur, copper, natural gas, silver, lead, salt, amber, arable land 
				Portugal
			fish, forests (cork), iron ore, copper, zinc, tin, tungsten, silver, gold, uranium, marble, clay, gypsum, salt, arable land, hydropower 
				Puerto Rico
			some copper and nickel; potential for onshore and offshore oil 
				Qatar
			petroleum, natural gas, fish 
				Romania
			petroleum (reserves declining), timber, natural gas, coal, iron ore, salt, arable land, hydropower 
				Russia
			wide natural resource base including major deposits of oil, natural gas, coal, and many strategic minerals, timber 
				note: formidable obstacles of climate, terrain, and distance hinder exploitation of natural resources 
				Rwanda
			gold, cassiterite (tin ore), wolframite (tungsten ore), methane, hydropower, arable land 
				Saint Barthelemy
			has few natural resouces, its beaches being the most important 
				Saint Helena
			fish, lobster 
				Saint Kitts and Nevis
			arable land 
				Saint Lucia
			forests, sandy beaches, minerals (pumice), mineral springs, geothermal potential 
				Saint Martin
			salt 
				Saint Pierre and Miquelon
			fish, deepwater ports 
				Saint Vincent and the Grenadines
			hydropower, cropland 
				Samoa
			hardwood forests, fish, hydropower 
				San Marino
			building stone 
				Sao Tome and Principe
			fish, hydropower 
				Saudi Arabia
			petroleum, natural gas, iron ore, gold, copper 
				Senegal
			fish, phosphates, iron ore 
				Serbia
			oil, gas, coal, iron ore, copper, zinc, antimony, chromite, gold, silver, magnesium, pyrite, limestone, marble, salt, arable land 
				Seychelles
			fish, copra, cinnamon trees 
				Sierra Leone
			diamonds, titanium ore, bauxite, iron ore, gold, chromite 
				Singapore
			fish, deepwater ports 
				Slovakia
			brown coal and lignite; small amounts of iron ore, copper and manganese ore; salt; arable land 
				Slovenia
			lignite coal, lead, zinc, building stone, hydropower, forests 
				Solomon Islands
			fish, forests, gold, bauxite, phosphates, lead, zinc, nickel 
				Somalia
			uranium and largely unexploited reserves of iron ore, tin, gypsum, bauxite, copper, salt, natural gas, likely oil reserves 
				South Africa
			gold, chromium, antimony, coal, iron ore, manganese, nickel, phosphates, tin, uranium, gem diamonds, platinum, copper, vanadium, salt, natural gas 
				South Georgia and the South Sandwich Islands
			fish 
				Southern Ocean
			probable large and possible giant oil and gas fields on the continental margin; manganese nodules, possible placer deposits, sand and gravel, fresh water as icebergs; squid, whales, and seals - none exploited; krill, fish 
				Spain
			coal, lignite, iron ore, copper, lead, zinc, uranium, tungsten, mercury, pyrites, magnesite, fluorspar, gypsum, sepiolite, kaolin, potash, hydropower, arable land 
				Spratly Islands
			fish, guano, undetermined oil and natural gas potential 
				Sri Lanka
			limestone, graphite, mineral sands, gems, phosphates, clay, hydropower 
				Sudan
			petroleum; small reserves of iron ore, copper, chromium ore, zinc, tungsten, mica, silver, gold, hydropower 
				Suriname
			timber, hydropower, fish, kaolin, shrimp, bauxite, gold, and small amounts of nickel, copper, platinum, iron ore 
				Svalbard
			coal, iron ore, copper, zinc, phosphate, wildlife, fish 
				Swaziland
			asbestos, coal, clay, cassiterite, hydropower, forests, small gold and diamond deposits, quarry stone, and talc 
				Sweden
			iron ore, copper, lead, zinc, gold, silver, tungsten, uranium, arsenic, feldspar, timber, hydropower 
				Switzerland
			hydropower potential, timber, salt 
				Syria
			petroleum, phosphates, chrome and manganese ores, asphalt, iron ore, rock salt, marble, gypsum, hydropower 
				Taiwan
			small deposits of coal, natural gas, limestone, marble, and asbestos 
				Tajikistan
			hydropower, some petroleum, uranium, mercury, brown coal, lead, zinc, antimony, tungsten, silver, gold 
				Tanzania
			hydropower, tin, phosphates, iron ore, coal, diamonds, gemstones, gold, natural gas, nickel 
				Thailand
			tin, rubber, natural gas, tungsten, tantalum, timber, lead, fish, gypsum, lignite, fluorite, arable land 
				Timor-Leste
			gold, petroleum, natural gas, manganese, marble 
				Togo
			phosphates, limestone, marble, arable land 
				Tokelau
			NEGL 
				Tonga
			fish, fertile soil 
				Trinidad and Tobago
			petroleum, natural gas, asphalt 
				Tunisia
			petroleum, phosphates, iron ore, lead, zinc, salt 
				Turkey
			coal, iron ore, copper, chromium, antimony, mercury, gold, barite, borate, celestite (strontium), emery, feldspar, limestone, magnesite, marble, perlite, pumice, pyrites (sulfur), clay, arable land, hydropower 
				Turkmenistan
			petroleum, natural gas, sulfur, salt 
				Turks and Caicos Islands
			spiny lobster, conch 
				Tuvalu
			fish 
				Uganda
			copper, cobalt, hydropower, limestone, salt, arable land 
				Ukraine
			iron ore, coal, manganese, natural gas, oil, salt, sulfur, graphite, titanium, magnesium, kaolin, nickel, mercury, timber, arable land 
				United Arab Emirates
			petroleum, natural gas 
				United Kingdom
			coal, petroleum, natural gas, iron ore, lead, zinc, gold, tin, limestone, salt, clay, chalk, gypsum, potash, silica sand, slate, arable land 
				United States
			coal, copper, lead, molybdenum, phosphates, uranium, bauxite, gold, iron, mercury, nickel, potash, silver, tungsten, zinc, petroleum, natural gas, timber 
				note: the US has the world's largest coal reserves with 491 billion short tons accounting for 27% of the world's total 
				United States Pacific Island Wildlife Refuges
			terrestrial and aquatic wildlife 
				Uruguay
			arable land, hydropower, minor minerals, fisheries 
				Uzbekistan
			natural gas, petroleum, coal, gold, uranium, silver, copper, lead and zinc, tungsten, molybdenum 
				Vanuatu
			manganese, hardwood forests, fish 
				Venezuela
			petroleum, natural gas, iron ore, gold, bauxite, other minerals, hydropower, diamonds 
				Vietnam
			phosphates, coal, manganese, bauxite, chromate, offshore oil and gas deposits, forests, hydropower 
				Virgin Islands
			sun, sand, sea, surf 
				Wake Island
			none 
				Wallis and Futuna
			NEGL 
				West Bank
			arable land 
				Western Sahara
			phosphates, iron ore 
				World
			the rapid depletion of nonrenewable mineral resources, the depletion of forest areas and wetlands, the extinction of animal and plant species, and the deterioration in air and water quality (especially in some countries of Eastern Europe, the former USSR, and China) pose serious long-term problems that governments and peoples are only beginning to address 
				Yemen
			petroleum, fish, rock salt, marble; small deposits of coal, gold, lead, nickel, and copper; fertile soil in west 
				Zambia
			copper, cobalt, zinc, lead, coal, emeralds, gold, silver, uranium, hydropower 
				Zimbabwe
			coal, chromium ore, asbestos, gold, nickel, copper, iron ore, vanadium, lithium, tin, platinum group metals  		
				This page was last updated on 19 March 2009
&nbsp; 
CIA - The World Factbook -- Field Listing - Area - comparative
&nbsp; 
				    &nbsp; 
                    Field Listing - Area - comparative
         Home 
          &nbsp;Reference Maps 
          &nbsp;Appendixes 
			Country
			Area - comparative 	
				Afghanistan
			slightly smaller than Texas 
				Akrotiri
			about 0.7 times the size of Washington, DC 
				Albania
			slightly smaller than Maryland 
				Algeria
			slightly less than 3.5 times the size of Texas 
				American Samoa
			slightly larger than Washington, DC 
				Andorra
			2.5 times the size of Washington, DC 
				Angola
			slightly less than twice the size of Texas 
				Anguilla
			about half the size of Washington, DC 
				Antarctica
			slightly less than 1.5 times the size of the US 
				Antigua and Barbuda
			2.5 times the size of Washington, DC 
				Arctic Ocean
			slightly less than 1.5 times the size of the US 
				Argentina
			slightly less than three-tenths the size of the US 
				Armenia
			slightly smaller than Maryland 
				Aruba
			slightly larger than Washington, DC 
				Ashmore and Cartier Islands
			about eight times the size of The Mall in Washington, DC 
				Atlantic Ocean
			slightly less than 6.5 times the size of the US 
				Australia
			slightly smaller than the US contiguous 48 states 
				Austria
			slightly smaller than Maine 
				Azerbaijan
			slightly smaller than Maine 
				Bahamas, The
			slightly smaller than Connecticut 
				Bahrain
			3.5 times the size of Washington, DC 
				Bangladesh
			slightly smaller than Iowa 
				Barbados
			2.5 times the size of Washington, DC 
				Belarus
			slightly smaller than Kansas 
				Belgium
			about the size of Maryland 
				Belize
			slightly smaller than Massachusetts 
				Benin
			slightly smaller than Pennsylvania 
				Bermuda
			about one-third the size of Washington, DC 
				Bhutan
			about one-half the size of Indiana 
				Bolivia
			slightly less than three times the size of Montana 
				Bosnia and Herzegovina
			slightly smaller than West Virginia 
				Botswana
			slightly smaller than Texas 
				Bouvet Island
			about 0.3 times the size of Washington, DC 
				Brazil
			slightly smaller than the US 
				British Indian Ocean Territory
			land area is about 0.3 times the size of Washington, DC 
				British Virgin Islands
			about 0.9 times the size of Washington, DC 
				Brunei
			slightly smaller than Delaware 
				Bulgaria
			slightly larger than Tennessee 
				Burkina Faso
			slightly larger than Colorado 
				Burma
			slightly smaller than Texas 
				Burundi
			slightly smaller than Maryland 
				Cambodia
			slightly smaller than Oklahoma 
				Cameroon
			slightly larger than California 
				Canada
			somewhat larger than the US 
				Cape Verde
			slightly larger than Rhode Island 
				Cayman Islands
			1.5 times the size of Washington, DC 
				Central African Republic
			slightly smaller than Texas 
				Chad
			slightly more than three times the size of California 
				Chile
			slightly smaller than twice the size of Montana 
				China
			slightly smaller than the US 
				Christmas Island
			about three-quarters the size of Washington, DC 
				Clipperton Island
			about 12 times the size of The Mall in Washington, DC 
				Cocos (Keeling) Islands
			about 24 times the size of The Mall in Washington, DC 
				Colombia
			slightly less than twice the size of Texas 
				Comoros
			slightly more than 12 times the size of Washington, DC 
				Congo, Democratic Republic of the
			slightly less than one-fourth the size of the US 
				Congo, Republic of the
			slightly smaller than Montana 
				Cook Islands
			1.3 times the size of Washington, DC 
				Coral Sea Islands
			NA 
				Costa Rica
			slightly smaller than West Virginia 
				Cote d'Ivoire
			slightly larger than New Mexico 
				Croatia
			slightly smaller than West Virginia 
				Cuba
			slightly smaller than Pennsylvania 
				Cyprus
			about 0.6 times the size of Connecticut 
				Czech Republic
			slightly smaller than South Carolina 
				Denmark
			slightly less than twice the size of Massachusetts 
				Dhekelia
			about three-quarters the size of Washington, DC 
				Djibouti
			slightly smaller than Massachusetts 
				Dominica
			slightly more than four times the size of Washington, DC 
				Dominican Republic
			slightly more than twice the size of New Hampshire 
				Ecuador
			slightly smaller than Nevada 
				Egypt
			slightly more than three times the size of New Mexico 
				El Salvador
			slightly smaller than Massachusetts 
				Equatorial Guinea
			slightly smaller than Maryland 
				Eritrea
			slightly larger than Pennsylvania 
				Estonia
			slightly smaller than New Hampshire and Vermont combined 
				Ethiopia
			slightly less than twice the size of Texas 
				European Union
			less than one-half the size of the US 
				Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas)
			slightly smaller than Connecticut 
				Faroe Islands
			eight times the size of Washington, DC 
				Fiji
			slightly smaller than New Jersey 
				Finland
			slightly smaller than Montana 
				France
			slightly less than the size of Texas 
				French Polynesia
			slightly less than one-third the size of Connecticut 
				French Southern and Antarctic Lands
				Ile Amsterdam (Ile Amsterdam et Ile Saint-Paul): less than one-half the size of Washington, DC 
				Ile Saint-Paul (Ile Amsterdam et Ile Saint-Paul): more than 10 times the size of The Mall in Washington, DC 
				Iles Crozet: about twice the size of Washington, DC 
				Iles Kerguelen: a little larger than Delaware 
				Bassas da India (Iles Eparses): land area about one-third the size of The Mall in Washington, DC 
				Europa Island (Iles Eparses): about one-sixth the size of Washington, DC 
				Glorioso Islands (Iles Eparses): about eight times the size of The Mall in Washington, DC 
				Juan de Nova Island (Iles Eparses): about seven times the size of The Mall in Washington, DC 
				Tromelin Island (Iles Eparses): about 1.7 times the size of The Mall in Washington, DC 
				Gabon
			slightly smaller than Colorado 
				Gambia, The
			slightly less than twice the size of Delaware 
				Gaza Strip
			slightly more than twice the size of Washington, DC 
				Georgia
			slightly smaller than South Carolina 
				Germany
			slightly smaller than Montana 
				Ghana
			slightly smaller than Oregon 
				Gibraltar
			a little less than one half the size of Rhode Island 
				Greece
			slightly smaller than Alabama 
				Greenland
			slightly more than three times the size of Texas 
				Grenada
			twice the size of Washington, DC 
				Guam
			three times the size of Washington, DC 
				Guatemala
			slightly smaller than Tennessee 
				Guernsey
			about one-half the size of Washington, DC 
				Guinea
			slightly smaller than Oregon 
				Guinea-Bissau
			slightly less than three times the size of Connecticut 
				Guyana
			slightly smaller than Idaho 
				Haiti
			slightly smaller than Maryland 
				Heard Island and McDonald Islands
			slightly more than two times the size of Washington, DC 
				Holy See (Vatican City)
			about 0.7 times the size of The Mall in Washington, DC 
				Honduras
			slightly larger than Tennessee 
				Hong Kong
			six times the size of Washington, DC 
				Hungary
			slightly smaller than Indiana 
				Iceland
			slightly smaller than Kentucky 
				India
			slightly more than one-third the size of the US 
				Indian Ocean
			about 5.5 times the size of the US 
				Indonesia
			slightly less than three times the size of Texas 
				Iran
			slightly larger than Alaska 
				Iraq
			slightly more than twice the size of Idaho 
				Ireland
			slightly larger than West Virginia 
				Isle of Man
			slightly more than three times the size of Washington, DC 
				Israel
			slightly smaller than New Jersey 
				Italy
			slightly larger than Arizona 
				Jamaica
			slightly smaller than Connecticut 
				Jan Mayen
			slightly more than twice the size of Washington, DC 
				Japan
			slightly smaller than California 
				Jersey
			about two-thirds the size of Washington, DC 
				Jordan
			slightly smaller than Indiana 
				Kazakhstan
			slightly less than four times the size of Texas 
				Kenya
			slightly more than twice the size of Nevada 
				Kiribati
			four times the size of Washington, DC 
				Korea, North
			slightly smaller than Mississippi 
				Korea, South
			slightly larger than Indiana 
				Kosovo
			slightly larger than Delaware 
				Kuwait
			slightly smaller than New Jersey 
				Kyrgyzstan
			slightly smaller than South Dakota 
				Laos
			slightly larger than Utah 
				Latvia
			slightly larger than West Virginia 
				Lebanon
			about 0.7 times the size of Connecticut 
				Lesotho
			slightly smaller than Maryland 
				Liberia
			slightly larger than Tennessee 
				Libya
			slightly larger than Alaska 
				Liechtenstein
			about 0.9 times the size of Washington, DC 
				Lithuania
			slightly larger than West Virginia 
				Luxembourg
			slightly smaller than Rhode Island 
				Macau
			less than one-sixth the size of Washington, DC 
				Macedonia
			slightly larger than Vermont 
				Madagascar
			slightly less than twice the size of Arizona 
				Malawi
			slightly smaller than Pennsylvania 
				Malaysia
			slightly larger than New Mexico 
				Maldives
			about 1.7 times the size of Washington, DC 
				Mali
			slightly less than twice the size of Texas 
				Malta
			slightly less than twice the size of Washington, DC 
				Marshall Islands
			about the size of Washington, DC 
				Mauritania
			slightly larger than three times the size of New Mexico 
				Mauritius
			almost 11 times the size of Washington, DC 
				Mayotte
			slightly more than twice the size of Washington, DC 
				Mexico
			slightly less than three times the size of Texas 
				Micronesia, Federated States of
			four times the size of Washington, DC (land area only) 
				Moldova
			slightly larger than Maryland 
				Monaco
			about three times the size of The Mall in Washington, DC 
				Mongolia
			slightly smaller than Alaska 
				Montenegro
			slightly smaller than Connecticut 
				Montserrat
			about 0.6 times the size of Washington, DC 
				Morocco
			slightly larger than California 
				Mozambique
			slightly less than twice the size of California 
				Namibia
			slightly more than half the size of Alaska 
				Nauru
			about 0.1 times the size of Washington, DC 
				Navassa Island
			about nine times the size of The Mall in Washington, DC 
				Nepal
			slightly larger than Arkansas 
				Netherlands
			slightly less than twice the size of New Jersey 
				Netherlands Antilles
			more than five times the size of Washington, DC 
				New Caledonia
			slightly smaller than New Jersey 
				New Zealand
			about the size of Colorado 
				Nicaragua
			slightly smaller than the state of New York 
				Niger
			slightly less than twice the size of Texas 
				Nigeria
			slightly more than twice the size of California 
				Niue
			1.5 times the size of Washington, DC 
				Norfolk Island
			about 0.2 times the size of Washington, DC 
				Northern Mariana Islands
			2.5 times the size of Washington, DC 
				Norway
			slightly larger than New Mexico 
				Oman
			slightly smaller than Kansas 
				Pacific Ocean
			about 15 times the size of the US; covers about 28% of the global surface; larger than the total land area of the world 
				Pakistan
			slightly less than twice the size of California 
				Palau
			slightly more than 2.5 times the size of Washington, DC 
				Panama
			slightly smaller than South Carolina 
				Papua New Guinea
			slightly larger than California 
				Paracel Islands
			NA 
				Paraguay
			slightly smaller than California 
				Peru
			slightly smaller than Alaska 
				Philippines
			slightly larger than Arizona 
				Pitcairn Islands
			about 0.3 times the size of Washington, DC 
				Poland
			slightly smaller than New Mexico 
				Portugal
			slightly smaller than Indiana 
				Puerto Rico
			slightly less than three times the size of Rhode Island 
				Qatar
			slightly smaller than Connecticut 
				Romania
			slightly smaller than Oregon 
				Russia
			approximately 1.8 times the size of the US 
				Rwanda
			slightly smaller than Maryland 
				Saint Barthelemy
			less than an eighth of the size of Washington, DC 
				Saint Helena
			slightly more than twice the size of Washington, DC 
				Saint Kitts and Nevis
			1.5 times the size of Washington, DC 
				Saint Lucia
			3.5 times the size of Washington, DC 
				Saint Martin
			more than one-third the size of Washington, DC 
				Saint Pierre and Miquelon
			1.5 times the size of Washington, DC 
				Saint Vincent and the Grenadines
			twice the size of Washington, DC 
				Samoa
			slightly smaller than Rhode Island 
				San Marino
			about one third times the size of Washington, DC 
				Sao Tome and Principe
			more than five times the size of Washington, DC 
				Saudi Arabia
			slightly more than one-fifth the size of the US 
				Senegal
			slightly smaller than South Dakota 
				Serbia
			slightly smaller than South Carolina 
				Seychelles
			2.5 times the size of Washington, DC 
				Sierra Leone
			slightly smaller than South Carolina 
				Singapore
			slightly more than 3.5 times the size of Washington, DC 
				Slovakia
			about twice the size of New Hampshire 
				Slovenia
			slightly smaller than New Jersey 
				Solomon Islands
			slightly smaller than Maryland 
				Somalia
			slightly smaller than Texas 
				South Africa
			slightly less than twice the size of Texas 
				South Georgia and the South Sandwich Islands
			slightly larger than Rhode Island 
				Southern Ocean
			slightly more than twice the size of the US 
				Spain
			slightly more than twice the size of Oregon 
				Spratly Islands
			NA 
				Sri Lanka
			slightly larger than West Virginia 
				Sudan
			slightly more than one-quarter the size of the US 
				Suriname
			slightly larger than Georgia 
				Svalbard
			slightly smaller than West Virginia 
				Swaziland
			slightly smaller than New Jersey 
				Sweden
			slightly larger than California 
				Switzerland
			slightly less than twice the size of New Jersey 
				Syria
			slightly larger than North Dakota 
				Taiwan
			slightly smaller than Maryland and Delaware combined 
				Tajikistan
			slightly smaller than Wisconsin 
				Tanzania
			slightly larger than twice the size of California 
				Thailand
			slightly more than twice the size of Wyoming 
				Timor-Leste
			slightly larger than Connecticut 
				Togo
			slightly smaller than West Virginia 
				Tokelau
			about 17 times the size of The Mall in Washington, DC 
				Tonga
			four times the size of Washington, DC 
				Trinidad and Tobago
			slightly smaller than Delaware 
				Tunisia
			slightly larger than Georgia 
				Turkey
			slightly larger than Texas 
				Turkmenistan
			slightly larger than California 
				Turks and Caicos Islands
			2.5 times the size of Washington, DC 
				Tuvalu
			0.1 times the size of Washington, DC 
				Uganda
			slightly smaller than Oregon 
				Ukraine
			slightly smaller than Texas 
				United Arab Emirates
			slightly smaller than Maine 
				United Kingdom
			slightly smaller than Oregon 
				United States
			about half the size of Russia; about three-tenths the size of Africa; about half the size of South America (or slightly larger than Brazil); slightly larger than China; more than twice the size of the European Union 
				United States Pacific Island Wildlife Refuges
				Baker Island: about two and a half times the size of The Mall in Washington, DC 
				Howland Island: about three times the size of The Mall in Washington, DC 
				Jarvis Island: about eight times the size of The Mall in Washington, DC 
				Johnston Atoll: about four and a half times the size of The Mall in Washington, DC 
				Kingman Reef: a little more than one and a half times the size of The Mall in Washington, DC 
				Midway Islands: about nine times the size of The Mall in Washington, DC 
				Palmyra Atoll: about 20 times the size of The Mall in Washington, DC 
				Uruguay
			slightly smaller than the state of Washington 
				Uzbekistan
			slightly larger than California 
				Vanuatu
			slightly larger than Connecticut 
				Venezuela
			slightly more than twice the size of California 
				Vietnam
			slightly larger than New Mexico 
				Virgin Islands
			twice the size of Washington, DC 
				Wake Island
			about 11 times the size of The Mall in Washington, DC 
				Wallis and Futuna
			1.5 times the size of Washington, DC 
				West Bank
			slightly smaller than Delaware 
				Western Sahara
			about the size of Colorado 
				World
			land area about 16 times the size of the US 
				Yemen
			slightly larger than twice the size of Wyoming 
				Zambia
			slightly larger than Texas 
				Zimbabwe
			slightly larger than Montana  		
				This page was last updated on 19 March 2009
&nbsp; 
CIA - The World Factbook -- Field Listing - Investment (gross fixed)
&nbsp; 
				    &nbsp; 
                    Field Listing - Investment (gross fixed)
         Home 
          &nbsp;Reference Maps 
          &nbsp;Appendixes 
          		&nbsp;Rank Order List
			Country
			Investment (gross fixed) (% of GDP) 
				Albania
			22.8% of GDP (2008 est.) 
				Algeria
			24.8% of GDP (2008 est.) 
				Angola
			9% of GDP (2008 est.) 
				Argentina
			24% of GDP (2008 est.) 
				Armenia
			34.1% of GDP (2008 est.) 
				Australia
			27.6% of GDP (2008 est.) 
				Austria
			20.7% of GDP (2008 est.) 
				Azerbaijan
			21% of GDP (2008 est.) 
				Bahrain
			27.3% of GDP (2008 est.) 
				Bangladesh
			24.3% of GDP (2008 est.) 
				Belarus
			31.5% of GDP (2008 est.) 
				Belgium
			21.3% of GDP (2008 est.) 
				Belize
			24.5% of GDP (2008 est.) 
				Benin
			19.5% of GDP (2008 est.) 
				Bolivia
			16.7% of GDP (2008 est.) 
				Botswana
			23.9% of GDP (2008 est.) 
				Brazil
			18.6% of GDP (2008 est.) 
				Bulgaria
			38.3% of GDP (2008) 
				Burkina Faso
			24.5% of GDP (2008 est.) 
				Burma
			14.1% of GDP (2008 est.) 
				Burundi
			28.4% of GDP (2008 est.) 
				Cambodia
			21.3% of GDP (2008 est.) 
				Cameroon
			17.6% of GDP (2008 est.) 
				Canada
			22.6% of GDP (2008 est.) 
				Cape Verde
			41.3% of GDP (2008 est.) 
				Chad
			8.5% of GDP (2008 est.) 
				Chile
			23.7% of GDP (2008 est.) 
				China
			40.2% of GDP (2008 est.) 
				Colombia
			23.1% of GDP (2008 est.) 
				Congo, Republic of the
			19.3% of GDP (2008 est.) 
				Costa Rica
			23% of GDP (2008 est.) 
				Cote d'Ivoire
			9.5% of GDP (2008 est.) 
				Croatia
			31.5% of GDP (2008 est.) 
				Cuba
			11.6% of GDP (2008 est.) 
				Cyprus
			21.4% of GDP (2008 est.) 
				Czech Republic
			27.8% of GDP (2008 est.) 
				Denmark
			22.4% of GDP (2008 est.) 
				Dominican Republic
			19.6% of GDP (2008 est.) 
				Ecuador
			23.3% of GDP (2008 est.) 
				Egypt
			17% of GDP (2008 est.) 
				El Salvador
			16% of GDP (2008 est.) 
				Equatorial Guinea
			30% of GDP (2008 est.) 
				Eritrea
			21.2% of GDP (2008 est.) 
				Estonia
			29.4% of GDP (2008 est.) 
				Ethiopia
			25.4% of GDP (2008 est.) 
				European Union
			21% of GDP (2008 est.) 
				Finland
			20.5% of GDP (2008 est.) 
				France
			21% of GDP (2008 est.) 
				Gabon
			32% of GDP (2008 est.) 
				Gambia, The
			24.7% of GDP (2008 est.) 
				Georgia
			29.5% of GDP (2008 est.) 
				Germany
			18.9% of GDP (2008 est.) 
				Ghana
			31.9% of GDP (2008 est.) 
				Greece
			24.9% of GDP (2008 est.) 
				Guatemala
			20.3% of GDP (2008 est.) 
				Guinea
			11.7% of GDP (2008 est.) 
				Guyana
			40.5% of GDP (2008 est.) 
				Haiti
			28.9% of GDP (2008 est.) 
				Honduras
			31.5% of GDP (2008 est.) 
				Hong Kong
			20.6% of GDP (2008 est.) 
				Hungary
			15.2% of GDP (January - September 2008) 
				Iceland
			21.9% of GDP (2008 est.) 
				India
			39% of GDP (2008 est.) 
				Indonesia
			25.2% of GDP (2008 est.) 
				Iran
			27.7% of GDP (2008 est.) 
				Ireland
			19.8% of GDP (2008 est.) 
				Israel
			18% of GDP (2008 est.) 
				Italy
			20.5% of GDP (2008 est.) 
				Jamaica
			34.9% of GDP (2008 est.) 
				Japan
			22.5% of GDP (2008 est.) 
				Jordan
			34.1% of GDP (2008 est.) 
				Kazakhstan
			27.8% of GDP (2008 est.) 
				Kenya
			21.6% of GDP (2008 est.) 
				Korea, South
			27.1% of GDP (2008 est.) 
				Kosovo
			30% of GDP (2007 est.) 
				Kuwait
			18.4% of GDP (2008 est.) 
				Kyrgyzstan
			25.8% of GDP (2008 est.) 
				Latvia
			30.2% of GDP (2008 est.) 
				Lebanon
			24.1% of GDP (2008 est.) 
				Lesotho
			39.2% of GDP (2008 est.) 
				Libya
			8.1% of GDP (2008 est.) 
				Lithuania
			27.8% of GDP (2008 est.) 
				Luxembourg
			19.3% of GDP (2008 est.) 
				Macedonia
			18% of GDP (2008 est.) 
				Madagascar
			27.2% of GDP (2008 est.) 
				Malawi
			8.6% of GDP (2008 est.) 
				Malaysia
			20.7% of GDP (2008 est.) 
				Malta
			20% of GDP (2008 est.) 
				Mauritius
			27.1% of GDP (2008 est.) 
				Mexico
			22.9% of GDP (2008 est.) 
				Moldova
			36.1% of GDP (2008 est.) 
				Montenegro
			30.5% of GDP (2006 est.) 
				Morocco
			31.9% of GDP (2008 est.) 
				Mozambique
			24% of GDP (2008 est.) 
				Namibia
			27.4% of GDP (2008 est.) 
				Netherlands
			20.3% of GDP (2008 est.) 
				New Zealand
			23.6% of GDP (2008 est.) 
				Nicaragua
			32.1% of GDP (2008 est.) 
				Nigeria
			21.4% of GDP (2008 est.) 
				Norway
			20.3% of GDP (2008 est.) 
				Oman
			17.9% of GDP (2008 est.) 
				Pakistan
			20% of GDP (2008 est.) 
				Panama
			24.9% of GDP (2008 est.) 
				Papua New Guinea
			19.9% of GDP (2008 est.) 
				Paraguay
			20.2% of GDP (2008 est.) 
				Peru
			24.4% of GDP (2008 est.) 
				Philippines
			16.8% of GDP (2008 est.) 
				Poland
			22.7% of GDP (2008 est.) 
				Portugal
			21.9% of GDP (2008 est.) 
				Qatar
			41.4% of GDP (2008 est.) 
				Romania
			31.5% of GDP (2008 est.) 
				Russia
			24.7% of GDP (2007 est.) 
				Rwanda
			22.5% of GDP (2008 est.) 
				Sao Tome and Principe
			36.7% of GDP (2008 est.) 
				Saudi Arabia
			19.5% of GDP (2008 est.) 
				Senegal
			25.4% of GDP (2008 est.) 
				Serbia
			20.1% of GDP (2007 est.) 
				Seychelles
			10.1% of GDP (2008 est.) 
				Singapore
			45% of GDP (2008 est.) 
				Slovakia
			25.9% of GDP (2008 est.) 
				Slovenia
			27.8% of GDP (2008 est.) 
				South Africa
			20.1% of GDP (2008 est.) 
				Spain
			30.1% of GDP (2008 est.) 
				Sri Lanka
			30% of GDP (2008 est.) 
				Sudan
			18.1% of GDP (2008 est.) 
				Swaziland
			19.7% of GDP (2008 est.) 
				Sweden
			19.6% of GDP (2008 est.) 
				Switzerland
			21.5% of GDP (2008 est.) 
				Syria
			22.6% of GDP (2008 est.) 
				Taiwan
			20.9% of GDP (2008 est.) 
				Tajikistan
			13.6% of GDP (2008 est.) 
				Tanzania
			24.2% of GDP (2008 est.) 
				Thailand
			22.2% of GDP (2008 est.) 
				Togo
			18.4% of GDP (2008 est.) 
				Trinidad and Tobago
			17.1% of GDP (2008 est.) 
				Tunisia
			24.4% of GDP (2008 est.) 
				Turkey
			21% of GDP (2008 est.) 
				Turkmenistan
			11.6% of GDP (2008 est.) 
				Uganda
			26.5% of GDP (2008 est.) 
				Ukraine
			23.4% of GDP (2008 est.) 
				United Arab Emirates
			20.8% of GDP (2008 est.) 
				United Kingdom
			16.7% of GDP (2008 est.) 
				United States
			14.6% of GDP (2008 est.) 
				Uruguay
			15.1% of GDP (2008 est.) 
				Venezuela
			20.5% of GDP (2008 est.) 
				Vietnam
			44.5% of GDP (2008 est.) 
				World
			21.9% of GDP (2008 est.) 
				Yemen
			26.3% of GDP (2008 est.) 
				Zambia
			26% of GDP (2008 est.) 
				Zimbabwe
			17.5% of GDP (2008 est.)  		
				This page was last updated on 19 March 2009
&nbsp; 
CIA - The World Factbook -- Field Listing - Climate
&nbsp; 
				    &nbsp; 
                    Field Listing - Climate
         Home 
          &nbsp;Reference Maps 
          &nbsp;Appendixes 
			Country
			Climate 	
				Afghanistan
			arid to semiarid; cold winters and hot summers 
				Akrotiri
			temperate; Mediterranean with hot, dry summers and cool winters 
				Albania
			mild temperate; cool, cloudy, wet winters; hot, clear, dry summers; interior is cooler and wetter 
				Algeria
			arid to semiarid; mild, wet winters with hot, dry summers along coast; drier with cold winters and hot summers on high plateau; sirocco is a hot, dust/sand-laden wind especially common in summer 
				American Samoa
			tropical marine, moderated by southeast trade winds; annual rainfall averages about 3 m; rainy season (November to April), dry season (May to October); little seasonal temperature variation 
				Andorra
			temperate; snowy, cold winters and warm, dry summers 
				Angola
			semiarid in south and along coast to Luanda; north has cool, dry season (May to October) and hot, rainy season (November to April) 
				Anguilla
			tropical; moderated by northeast trade winds 
				Antarctica
			severe low temperatures vary with latitude, elevation, and distance from the ocean; East Antarctica is colder than West Antarctica because of its higher elevation; Antarctic Peninsula has the most moderate climate; higher temperatures occur in January along the coast and average slightly below freezing 
				Antigua and Barbuda
			tropical maritime; little seasonal temperature variation 
				Arctic Ocean
			polar climate characterized by persistent cold and relatively narrow annual temperature ranges; winters characterized by continuous darkness, cold and stable weather conditions, and clear skies; summers characterized by continuous daylight, damp and foggy weather, and weak cyclones with rain or snow 
				Argentina
			mostly temperate; arid in southeast; subantarctic in southwest 
				Armenia
			highland continental, hot summers, cold winters 
				Aruba
			tropical marine; little seasonal temperature variation 
				Ashmore and Cartier Islands
			tropical 
				Atlantic Ocean
			tropical cyclones (hurricanes) develop off the coast of Africa near Cape Verde and move westward into the Caribbean Sea; hurricanes can occur from May to December, but are most frequent from August to November 
				Australia
			generally arid to semiarid; temperate in south and east; tropical in north 
				Austria
			temperate; continental, cloudy; cold winters with frequent rain and some snow in lowlands and snow in mountains; moderate summers with occasional showers 
				Azerbaijan
			dry, semiarid steppe 
				Bahamas, The
			tropical marine; moderated by warm waters of Gulf Stream 
				Bahrain
			arid; mild, pleasant winters; very hot, humid summers 
				Bangladesh
			tropical; mild winter (October to March); hot, humid summer (March to June); humid, warm rainy monsoon (June to October) 
				Barbados
			tropical; rainy season (June to October) 
				Belarus
			cold winters, cool and moist summers; transitional between continental and maritime 
				Belgium
			temperate; mild winters, cool summers; rainy, humid, cloudy 
				Belize
			tropical; very hot and humid; rainy season (May to November); dry season (February to May) 
				Benin
			tropical; hot, humid in south; semiarid in north 
				Bermuda
			subtropical; mild, humid; gales, strong winds common in winter 
				Bhutan
			varies; tropical in southern plains; cool winters and hot summers in central valleys; severe winters and cool summers in Himalayas 
				Bolivia
			varies with altitude; humid and tropical to cold and semiarid 
				Bosnia and Herzegovina
			hot summers and cold winters; areas of high elevation have short, cool summers and long, severe winters; mild, rainy winters along coast 
				Botswana
			semiarid; warm winters and hot summers 
				Bouvet Island
			antarctic 
				Brazil
			mostly tropical, but temperate in south 
				British Indian Ocean Territory
			tropical marine; hot, humid, moderated by trade winds 
				British Virgin Islands
			subtropical; humid; temperatures moderated by trade winds 
				Brunei
			tropical; hot, humid, rainy 
				Bulgaria
			temperate; cold, damp winters; hot, dry summers 
				Burkina Faso
			tropical; warm, dry winters; hot, wet summers 
				Burma
			tropical monsoon; cloudy, rainy, hot, humid summers (southwest monsoon, June to September); less cloudy, scant rainfall, mild temperatures, lower humidity during winter (northeast monsoon, December to April) 
				Burundi
			equatorial; high plateau with considerable altitude variation (772 m to 2,670 m above sea level); average annual temperature varies with altitude from 23 to 17 degrees centigrade but is generally moderate as the average altitude is about 1,700 m; average annual rainfall is about 150 cm; two wet seasons (February to May and September to November), and two dry seasons (June to August and December to January) 
				Cambodia
			tropical; rainy, monsoon season (May to November); dry season (December to April); little seasonal temperature variation 
				Cameroon
			varies with terrain, from tropical along coast to semiarid and hot in north 
				Canada
			varies from temperate in south to subarctic and arctic in north 
				Cape Verde
			temperate; warm, dry summer; precipitation meager and very erratic 
				Cayman Islands
			tropical marine; warm, rainy summers (May to October) and cool, relatively dry winters (November to April) 
				Central African Republic
			tropical; hot, dry winters; mild to hot, wet summers 
				Chad
			tropical in south, desert in north 
				Chile
			temperate; desert in north; Mediterranean in central region; cool and damp in south 
				China
			extremely diverse; tropical in south to subarctic in north 
				Christmas Island
			tropical with a wet season (December to April) and dry season; heat and humidity moderated by trade winds 
				Clipperton Island
			tropical; humid, average temperature 20-32 degrees C, wet season (May to October) 
				Cocos (Keeling) Islands
			tropical with high humidity, moderated by the southeast trade winds for about nine months of the year 
				Colombia
			tropical along coast and eastern plains; cooler in highlands 
				Comoros
			tropical marine; rainy season (November to May) 
				Congo, Democratic Republic of the
			tropical; hot and humid in equatorial river basin; cooler and drier in southern highlands; cooler and wetter in eastern highlands; north of Equator - wet season (April to October), dry season (December to February); south of Equator - wet season (November to March), dry season (April to October) 
				Congo, Republic of the
			tropical; rainy season (March to June); dry season (June to October); persistent high temperatures and humidity; particularly enervating climate astride the Equator 
				Cook Islands
			tropical oceanic; moderated by trade winds; a dry season from April to November and a more humid season from December to March 
				Coral Sea Islands
			tropical 
				Costa Rica
			tropical and subtropical; dry season (December to April); rainy season (May to November); cooler in highlands 
				Cote d'Ivoire
			tropical along coast, semiarid in far north; three seasons - warm and dry (November to March), hot and dry (March to May), hot and wet (June to October) 
				Croatia
			Mediterranean and continental; continental climate predominant with hot summers and cold winters; mild winters, dry summers along coast 
				Cuba
			tropical; moderated by trade winds; dry season (November to April); rainy season (May to October) 
				Cyprus
			temperate; Mediterranean with hot, dry summers and cool winters 
				Czech Republic
			temperate; cool summers; cold, cloudy, humid winters 
				Denmark
			temperate; humid and overcast; mild, windy winters and cool summers 
				Dhekelia
			temperate; Mediterranean with hot, dry summers and cool winters 
				Djibouti
			desert; torrid, dry 
				Dominica
			tropical; moderated by northeast trade winds; heavy rainfall 
				Dominican Republic
			tropical maritime; little seasonal temperature variation; seasonal variation in rainfall 
				Ecuador
			tropical along coast, becoming cooler inland at higher elevations; tropical in Amazonian jungle lowlands 
				Egypt
			desert; hot, dry summers with moderate winters 
				El Salvador
			tropical; rainy season (May to October); dry season (November to April); tropical on coast; temperate in uplands 
				Equatorial Guinea
			tropical; always hot, humid 
				Eritrea
			hot, dry desert strip along Red Sea coast; cooler and wetter in the central highlands (up to 61 cm of rainfall annually, heaviest June to September); semiarid in western hills and lowlands 
				Estonia
			maritime, wet, moderate winters, cool summers 
				Ethiopia
			tropical monsoon with wide topographic-induced variation 
				European Union
			cold temperate; potentially subarctic in the north to temperate; mild wet winters; hot dry summers in the south 
				Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas)
			cold marine; strong westerly winds, cloudy, humid; rain occurs on more than half of days in year; average annual rainfall is 24 inches in Stanley; occasional snow all year, except in January and February, but does not accumulate 
				Faroe Islands
			mild winters, cool summers; usually overcast; foggy, windy 
				Fiji
			tropical marine; only slight seasonal temperature variation 
				Finland
			cold temperate; potentially subarctic but comparatively mild because of moderating influence of the North Atlantic Current, Baltic Sea, and more than 60,000 lakes 
				France
				metropolitan France: generally cool winters and mild summers, but mild winters and hot summers along the Mediterranean; occasional strong, cold, dry, north-to-northwesterly wind known as mistral 
				French Guiana: tropical; hot, humid; little seasonal temperature variation 
				Guadeloupe and Martinique: subtropical tempered by trade winds; moderately high humidity; rainy season (June to October); vulnerable to devastating cyclones (hurricanes) every eight years on average 
				Reunion: tropical, but temperature moderates with elevation; cool and dry (May to November), hot and rainy (November to April) 
				French Polynesia
			tropical, but moderate 
				French Southern and Antarctic Lands
				Ile Amsterdam et Ile Saint-Paul: oceanic with persistent westerly winds and high humidity 
				Iles Crozet: windy, cold, wet, and cloudy 
				Iles Kerguelen: oceanic, cold, overcast, windy 
				Iles Eparses: tropical 
				Gabon
			tropical; always hot, humid 
				Gambia, The
			tropical; hot, rainy season (June to November); cooler, dry season (November to May) 
				Gaza Strip
			temperate, mild winters, dry and warm to hot summers 
				Georgia
			warm and pleasant; Mediterranean-like on Black Sea coast 
				Germany
			temperate and marine; cool, cloudy, wet winters and summers; occasional warm mountain (foehn) wind 
				Ghana
			tropical; warm and comparatively dry along southeast coast; hot and humid in southwest; hot and dry in north 
				Gibraltar
			Mediterranean with mild winters and warm summers 
				Greece
			temperate; mild, wet winters; hot, dry summers 
				Greenland
			arctic to subarctic; cool summers, cold winters 
				Grenada
			tropical; tempered by northeast trade winds 
				Guam
			tropical marine; generally warm and humid, moderated by northeast trade winds; dry season (January to June), rainy season (July to December); little seasonal temperature variation 
				Guatemala
			tropical; hot, humid in lowlands; cooler in highlands 
				Guernsey
			temperate with mild winters and cool summers; about 50% of days are overcast 
				Guinea
			generally hot and humid; monsoonal-type rainy season (June to November) with southwesterly winds; dry season (December to May) with northeasterly harmattan winds 
				Guinea-Bissau
			tropical; generally hot and humid; monsoonal-type rainy season (June to November) with southwesterly winds; dry season (December to May) with northeasterly harmattan winds 
				Guyana
			tropical; hot, humid, moderated by northeast trade winds; two rainy seasons (May to August, November to January) 
				Haiti
			tropical; semiarid where mountains in east cut off trade winds 
				Heard Island and McDonald Islands
			antarctic 
				Holy See (Vatican City)
			temperate; mild, rainy winters (September to May) with hot, dry summers (May to September) 
				Honduras
			subtropical in lowlands, temperate in mountains 
				Hong Kong
			subtropical monsoon; cool and humid in winter, hot and rainy from spring through summer, warm and sunny in fall 
				Hungary
			temperate; cold, cloudy, humid winters; warm summers 
				Iceland
			temperate; moderated by North Atlantic Current; mild, windy winters; damp, cool summers 
				India
			varies from tropical monsoon in south to temperate in north 
				Indian Ocean
			northeast monsoon (December to April), southwest monsoon (June to October); tropical cyclones occur during May/June and October/November in the northern Indian Ocean and January/February in the southern Indian Ocean 
				Indonesia
			tropical; hot, humid; more moderate in highlands 
				Iran
			mostly arid or semiarid, subtropical along Caspian coast 
				Iraq
			mostly desert; mild to cool winters with dry, hot, cloudless summers; northern mountainous regions along Iranian and Turkish borders experience cold winters with occasionally heavy snows that melt in early spring, sometimes causing extensive flooding in central and southern Iraq 
				Ireland
			temperate maritime; modified by North Atlantic Current; mild winters, cool summers; consistently humid; overcast about half the time 
				Isle of Man
			temperate; cool summers and mild winters; overcast about one-third of the time 
				Israel
			temperate; hot and dry in southern and eastern desert areas 
				Italy
			predominantly Mediterranean; Alpine in far north; hot, dry in south 
				Jamaica
			tropical; hot, humid; temperate interior 
				Jan Mayen
			arctic maritime with frequent storms and persistent fog 
				Japan
			varies from tropical in south to cool temperate in north 
				Jersey
			temperate; mild winters and cool summers 
				Jordan
			mostly arid desert; rainy season in west (November to April) 
				Kazakhstan
			continental, cold winters and hot summers, arid and semiarid 
				Kenya
			varies from tropical along coast to arid in interior 
				Kiribati
			tropical; marine, hot and humid, moderated by trade winds 
				Korea, North
			temperate with rainfall concentrated in summer 
				Korea, South
			temperate, with rainfall heavier in summer than winter 
				Kosovo
			influenced by continental air masses resulting in relatively cold winters with heavy snowfall and hot, dry summers and autumns; Mediterranean and alpine influences create regional variation; maximum rainfall between October and December 
				Kuwait
			dry desert; intensely hot summers; short, cool winters 
				Kyrgyzstan
			dry continental to polar in high Tien Shan; subtropical in southwest (Fergana Valley); temperate in northern foothill zone 
				Laos
			tropical monsoon; rainy season (May to November); dry season (December to April) 
				Latvia
			maritime; wet, moderate winters 
				Lebanon
			Mediterranean; mild to cool, wet winters with hot, dry summers; Lebanon mountains experience heavy winter snows 
				Lesotho
			temperate; cool to cold, dry winters; hot, wet summers 
				Liberia
			tropical; hot, humid; dry winters with hot days and cool to cold nights; wet, cloudy summers with frequent heavy showers 
				Libya
			Mediterranean along coast; dry, extreme desert interior 
				Liechtenstein
			continental; cold, cloudy winters with frequent snow or rain; cool to moderately warm, cloudy, humid summers 
				Lithuania
			transitional, between maritime and continental; wet, moderate winters and summers 
				Luxembourg
			modified continental with mild winters, cool summers 
				Macau
			subtropical; marine with cool winters, warm summers 
				Macedonia
			warm, dry summers and autumns; relatively cold winters with heavy snowfall 
				Madagascar
			tropical along coast, temperate inland, arid in south 
				Malawi
			sub-tropical; rainy season (November to May); dry season (May to November) 
				Malaysia
			tropical; annual southwest (April to October) and northeast (October to February) monsoons 
				Maldives
			tropical; hot, humid; dry, northeast monsoon (November to March); rainy, southwest monsoon (June to August) 
				Mali
			subtropical to arid; hot and dry (February to June); rainy, humid, and mild (June to November); cool and dry (November to February) 
				Malta
			Mediterranean; mild, rainy winters; hot, dry summers 
				Marshall Islands
			tropical; hot and humid; wet season May to November; islands border typhoon belt 
				Mauritania
			desert; constantly hot, dry, dusty 
				Mauritius
			tropical, modified by southeast trade winds; warm, dry winter (May to November); hot, wet, humid summer (November to May) 
				Mayotte
			tropical; marine; hot, humid, rainy season during northeastern monsoon (November to May); dry season is cooler (May to November) 
				Mexico
			varies from tropical to desert 
				Micronesia, Federated States of
			tropical; heavy year-round rainfall, especially in the eastern islands; located on southern edge of the typhoon belt with occasionally severe damage 
				Moldova
			moderate winters, warm summers 
				Monaco
			Mediterranean with mild, wet winters and hot, dry summers 
				Mongolia
			desert; continental (large daily and seasonal temperature ranges) 
				Montenegro
			Mediterranean climate, hot dry summers and autumns and relatively cold winters with heavy snowfalls inland 
				Montserrat
			tropical; little daily or seasonal temperature variation 
				Morocco
			Mediterranean, becoming more extreme in the interior 
				Mozambique
			tropical to subtropical 
				Namibia
			desert; hot, dry; rainfall sparse and erratic 
				Nauru
			tropical with a monsoonal pattern; rainy season (November to February) 
				Navassa Island
			marine, tropical 
				Nepal
			varies from cool summers and severe winters in north to subtropical summers and mild winters in south 
				Netherlands
			temperate; marine; cool summers and mild winters 
				Netherlands Antilles
			tropical; ameliorated by northeast trade winds 
				New Caledonia
			tropical; modified by southeast trade winds; hot, humid 
				New Zealand
			temperate with sharp regional contrasts 
				Nicaragua
			tropical in lowlands, cooler in highlands 
				Niger
			desert; mostly hot, dry, dusty; tropical in extreme south 
				Nigeria
			varies; equatorial in south, tropical in center, arid in north 
				Niue
			tropical; modified by southeast trade winds 
				Norfolk Island
			subtropical; mild, little seasonal temperature variation 
				Northern Mariana Islands
			tropical marine; moderated by northeast trade winds, little seasonal temperature variation; dry season December to June, rainy season July to October 
				Norway
			temperate along coast, modified by North Atlantic Current; colder interior with increased precipitation and colder summers; rainy year-round on west coast 
				Oman
			dry desert; hot, humid along coast; hot, dry interior; strong southwest summer monsoon (May to September) in far south 
				Pacific Ocean
			planetary air pressure systems and resultant wind patterns exhibit remarkable uniformity in the south and east; trade winds and westerly winds are well-developed patterns, modified by seasonal fluctuations; tropical cyclones (hurricanes) may form south of Mexico from June to October and affect Mexico and Central America; continental influences cause climatic uniformity to be much less pronounced in the eastern and western regions at the same latitude in the North Pacific Ocean; the western Pacific is monsoonal - a rainy season occurs during the summer months, when moisture-laden winds blow from the ocean over the land, and a dry season during the winter months, when dry winds blow from the Asian landmass back to the ocean; tropical cyclones (typhoons) may strike southeast and east Asia from May to December 
				Pakistan
			mostly hot, dry desert; temperate in northwest; arctic in north 
				Palau
			tropical; hot and humid; wet season May to November 
				Panama
			tropical maritime; hot, humid, cloudy; prolonged rainy season (May to January), short dry season (January to May) 
				Papua New Guinea
			tropical; northwest monsoon (December to March), southeast monsoon (May to October); slight seasonal temperature variation 
				Paracel Islands
			tropical 
				Paraguay
			subtropical to temperate; substantial rainfall in the eastern portions, becoming semiarid in the far west 
				Peru
			varies from tropical in east to dry desert in west; temperate to frigid in Andes 
				Philippines
			tropical marine; northeast monsoon (November to April); southwest monsoon (May to October) 
				Pitcairn Islands
			tropical; hot and humid; modified by southeast trade winds; rainy season (November to March) 
				Poland
			temperate with cold, cloudy, moderately severe winters with frequent precipitation; mild summers with frequent showers and thundershowers 
				Portugal
			maritime temperate; cool and rainy in north, warmer and drier in south 
				Puerto Rico
			tropical marine, mild; little seasonal temperature variation 
				Qatar
			arid; mild, pleasant winters; very hot, humid summers 
				Romania
			temperate; cold, cloudy winters with frequent snow and fog; sunny summers with frequent showers and thunderstorms 
				Russia
			ranges from steppes in the south through humid continental in much of European Russia; subarctic in Siberia to tundra climate in the polar north; winters vary from cool along Black Sea coast to frigid in Siberia; summers vary from warm in the steppes to cool along Arctic coast 
				Rwanda
			temperate; two rainy seasons (February to April, November to January); mild in mountains with frost and snow possible 
				Saint Barthelemy
			tropical, with practically no variation in temperature; has two seasons (dry and humid) 
				Saint Helena
				Saint Helena: tropical marine; mild, tempered by trade winds 
				Ascension Island: tropical marine; mild, semi-arid 
				Tristan da Cunha: temperate marine; mild, tempered by trade winds (tends to be cooler than Saint Helena) 
				Saint Kitts and Nevis
			tropical, tempered by constant sea breezes; little seasonal temperature variation; rainy season (May to November) 
				Saint Lucia
			tropical, moderated by northeast trade winds; dry season January to April, rainy season May to August 
				Saint Martin
			temperature averages 80-85 degrees all year long; low humidity, gentle trade winds, brief, intense rain showers; July-Novemeber is the hurricane season 
				Saint Pierre and Miquelon
			cold and wet, with much mist and fog; spring and autumn are windy 
				Saint Vincent and the Grenadines
			tropical; little seasonal temperature variation; rainy season (May to November) 
				Samoa
			tropical; rainy season (November to April), dry season (May to October) 
				San Marino
			Mediterranean; mild to cool winters; warm, sunny summers 
				Sao Tome and Principe
			tropical; hot, humid; one rainy season (October to May) 
				Saudi Arabia
			harsh, dry desert with great temperature extremes 
				Senegal
			tropical; hot, humid; rainy season (May to November) has strong southeast winds; dry season (December to April) dominated by hot, dry, harmattan wind 
				Serbia
			in the north, continental climate (cold winters and hot, humid summers with well distributed rainfall); in other parts, continental and Mediterranean climate (relatively cold winters with heavy snowfall and hot, dry summers and autumns) 
				Seychelles
			tropical marine; humid; cooler season during southeast monsoon (late May to September); warmer season during northwest monsoon (March to May) 
				Sierra Leone
			tropical; hot, humid; summer rainy season (May to December); winter dry season (December to April) 
				Singapore
			tropical; hot, humid, rainy; two distinct monsoon seasons - Northeastern monsoon (December to March) and Southwestern monsoon (June to September); inter-monsoon - frequent afternoon and early evening thunderstorms 
				Slovakia
			temperate; cool summers; cold, cloudy, humid winters 
				Slovenia
			Mediterranean climate on the coast, continental climate with mild to hot summers and cold winters in the plateaus and valleys to the east 
				Solomon Islands
			tropical monsoon; few extremes of temperature and weather 
				Somalia
			principally desert; northeast monsoon (December to February), moderate temperatures in north and hot in south; southwest monsoon (May to October), torrid in the north and hot in the south, irregular rainfall, hot and humid periods (tangambili) between monsoons 
				South Africa
			mostly semiarid; subtropical along east coast; sunny days, cool nights 
				South Georgia and the South Sandwich Islands
			variable, with mostly westerly winds throughout the year interspersed with periods of calm; nearly all precipitation falls as snow 
				Southern Ocean
			sea temperatures vary from about 10 degrees Celsius to -2 degrees Celsius; cyclonic storms travel eastward around the continent and frequently are intense because of the temperature contrast between ice and open ocean; the ocean area from about latitude 40 south to the Antarctic Circle has the strongest average winds found anywhere on Earth; in winter the ocean freezes outward to 65 degrees south latitude in the Pacific sector and 55 degrees south latitude in the Atlantic sector, lowering surface temperatures well below 0 degrees Celsius; at some coastal points intense persistent drainage winds from the interior keep the shoreline ice-free throughout the winter 
				Spain
			temperate; clear, hot summers in interior, more moderate and cloudy along coast; cloudy, cold winters in interior, partly cloudy and cool along coast 
				Spratly Islands
			tropical 
				Sri Lanka
			tropical monsoon; northeast monsoon (December to March); southwest monsoon (June to October) 
				Sudan
			tropical in south; arid desert in north; rainy season varies by region (April to November) 
				Suriname
			tropical; moderated by trade winds 
				Svalbard
			arctic, tempered by warm North Atlantic Current; cool summers, cold winters; North Atlantic Current flows along west and north coasts of Spitsbergen, keeping water open and navigable most of the year 
				Swaziland
			varies from tropical to near temperate 
				Sweden
			temperate in south with cold, cloudy winters and cool, partly cloudy summers; subarctic in north 
				Switzerland
			temperate, but varies with altitude; cold, cloudy, rainy/snowy winters; cool to warm, cloudy, humid summers with occasional showers 
				Syria
			mostly desert; hot, dry, sunny summers (June to August) and mild, rainy winters (December to February) along coast; cold weather with snow or sleet periodically in Damascus 
				Taiwan
			tropical; marine; rainy season during southwest monsoon (June to August); cloudiness is persistent and extensive all year 
				Tajikistan
			midlatitude continental, hot summers, mild winters; semiarid to polar in Pamir Mountains 
				Tanzania
			varies from tropical along coast to temperate in highlands 
				Thailand
			tropical; rainy, warm, cloudy southwest monsoon (mid-May to September); dry, cool northeast monsoon (November to mid-March); southern isthmus always hot and humid 
				Timor-Leste
			tropical; hot, humid; distinct rainy and dry seasons 
				Togo
			tropical; hot, humid in south; semiarid in north 
				Tokelau
			tropical; moderated by trade winds (April to November) 
				Tonga
			tropical; modified by trade winds; warm season (December to May), cool season (May to December) 
				Trinidad and Tobago
			tropical; rainy season (June to December) 
				Tunisia
			temperate in north with mild, rainy winters and hot, dry summers; desert in south 
				Turkey
			temperate; hot, dry summers with mild, wet winters; harsher in interior 
				Turkmenistan
			subtropical desert 
				Turks and Caicos Islands
			tropical; marine; moderated by trade winds; sunny and relatively dry 
				Tuvalu
			tropical; moderated by easterly trade winds (March to November); westerly gales and heavy rain (November to March) 
				Uganda
			tropical; generally rainy with two dry seasons (December to February, June to August); semiarid in northeast 
				Ukraine
			temperate continental; Mediterranean only on the southern Crimean coast; precipitation disproportionately distributed, highest in west and north, lesser in east and southeast; winters vary from cool along the Black Sea to cold farther inland; summers are warm across the greater part of the country, hot in the south 
				United Arab Emirates
			desert; cooler in eastern mountains 
				United Kingdom
			temperate; moderated by prevailing southwest winds over the North Atlantic Current; more than one-half of the days are overcast 
				United States
			mostly temperate, but tropical in Hawaii and Florida, arctic in Alaska, semiarid in the great plains west of the Mississippi River, and arid in the Great Basin of the southwest; low winter temperatures in the northwest are ameliorated occasionally in January and February by warm chinook winds from the eastern slopes of the Rocky Mountains 
				United States Pacific Island Wildlife Refuges
				Baker, Howland, and Jarvis Islands: equatorial; scant rainfall, constant wind, burning sun 
				Johnston Atoll and Kingman Reef: tropical, but generally dry; consistent northeast trade winds with little seasonal temperature variation 
				Midway Islands: subtropical with cool, moist winters (December to February) and warm, dry summers (May to October); moderated by prevailing easterly winds; most of the 1,067 mm (42 in) of annual rainfall occurs during the winter 
				Palmyra Atoll: equatorial, hot; located within the low pressure area of the Intertropical Convergence Zone (ITCZ) where the northeast and southeast trade winds meet, it is extremely wet with between 4,000-5,000 mm (160-200 in) of rainfall each year 
				Uruguay
			warm temperate; freezing temperatures almost unknown 
				Uzbekistan
			mostly midlatitude desert, long, hot summers, mild winters; semiarid grassland in east 
				Vanuatu
			tropical; moderated by southeast trade winds from May to October; moderate rainfall from November to April; may be affected by cyclones from December to April 
				Venezuela
			tropical; hot, humid; more moderate in highlands 
				Vietnam
			tropical in south; monsoonal in north with hot, rainy season (May to September) and warm, dry season (October to March) 
				Virgin Islands
			subtropical, tempered by easterly trade winds, relatively low humidity, little seasonal temperature variation; rainy season September to November 
				Wake Island
			tropical 
				Wallis and Futuna
			tropical; hot, rainy season (November to April); cool, dry season (May to October); rains 2,500-3,000 mm per year (80% humidity); average temperature 26.6 degrees C 
				West Bank
			temperate; temperature and precipitation vary with altitude, warm to hot summers, cool to mild winters 
				Western Sahara
			hot, dry desert; rain is rare; cold offshore air currents produce fog and heavy dew 
				World
			a wide equatorial band of hot and humid tropical climates - bordered north and south by subtropical temperate zones - that separate two large areas of cold and dry polar climates 
				Yemen
			mostly desert; hot and humid along west coast; temperate in western mountains affected by seasonal monsoon; extraordinarily hot, dry, harsh desert in east 
				Zambia
			tropical; modified by altitude; rainy season (October to April) 
				Zimbabwe
			tropical; moderated by altitude; rainy season (November to March)  		
				This page was last updated on 19 March 2009
&nbsp; 
CIA - The World Factbook -- Field Listing - Natural gas - imports
&nbsp; 
				    &nbsp; 
                    Field Listing - Natural gas - imports
         Home 
          &nbsp;Reference Maps 
          &nbsp;Appendixes 
          		&nbsp;Rank Order List
			Country
			Natural gas - imports (cu m) 
				Afghanistan
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Albania
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Algeria
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				American Samoa
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Angola
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Antigua and Barbuda
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Argentina
			1.9 billion cu m (2007 est.) 
				Armenia
			2.05 billion cu m (2007 est.) 
				Aruba
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Australia
			5.689 billion cu m (2007 est.) 
				Austria
			9.658 billion cu m (2007 est.) 
				Azerbaijan
			0 cu m (2005) 
				Bahamas, The
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Bahrain
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Bangladesh
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Barbados
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Belarus
			21.6 billion cu m (2007 est.) 
				Belgium
			17.34 billion cu m (2007 est.) 
				Belize
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Benin
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Bermuda
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Bhutan
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Bolivia
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Bosnia and Herzegovina
			0 cu m (2005) 
				Botswana
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Brazil
			10 billion cu m (2007 est.) 
				British Virgin Islands
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Brunei
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Bulgaria
			3.229 billion cu m (2007) 
				Burkina Faso
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Burma
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Burundi
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Cambodia
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Cameroon
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Canada
			13.2 billion cu m (2007 est.) 
				Cape Verde
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Cayman Islands
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Central African Republic
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Chad
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Chile
			2.4 billion cu m (2007 est.) 
				China
			3.871 billion cu m (2007 est.) 
				Colombia
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Comoros
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Congo, Democratic Republic of the
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Congo, Republic of the
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Cook Islands
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Costa Rica
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Cote d'Ivoire
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Croatia
			1.055 billion cu m (2007) 
				Cuba
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Cyprus
			NA 
				Czech Republic
			8.628 billion cu m (2007 est.) 
				Denmark
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Djibouti
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Dominica
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Dominican Republic
			239.8 million cu m (2005) 
				Ecuador
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Egypt
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				El Salvador
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Equatorial Guinea
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Eritrea
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Estonia
			1.003 billion cu m (2007 est.) 
				Ethiopia
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				European Union
			NA cu m 
				Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas)
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Faroe Islands
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Fiji
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Finland
			4.576 billion cu m (2007 est.) 
				France
			42.9 billion cu m (2007 est.) 
				French Polynesia
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Gabon
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Gambia, The
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Georgia
			1.48 billion cu m (2007 est.) 
				Germany
			88.35 billion cu m (2007 est.) 
				Ghana
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Gibraltar
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Greece
			4.1 billion cu m (2007 est.) 
				Greenland
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Grenada
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Guam
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Guatemala
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Guinea
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Guinea-Bissau
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Guyana
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Haiti
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Honduras
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Hong Kong
			3.08 billion cu m (2008 est.) 
				Hungary
			10.45 billion cu m (2007 est.) 
				Iceland
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				India
			10 billion cu m (2007 est.) 
				Indonesia
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Iran
			6.1 billion cu m (2007 est.) 
				Iraq
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Ireland
			4.552 billion cu m (2007 est.) 
				Israel
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Italy
			73.95 billion cu m (2007 est.) 
				Jamaica
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Japan
			95.62 billion cu m (2007 est.) 
				Jordan
			2.4 billion cu m (2007 est.) 
				Kazakhstan
			10.8 billion cu m (2007 est.) 
				Kenya
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Kiribati
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Korea, North
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Korea, South
			34.4 billion cu m (2007 est.) 
				Kuwait
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Kyrgyzstan
			750 million cu m (2007 est.) 
				Laos
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Latvia
			2.04 billion cu m (2007 est.) 
				Lebanon
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Lesotho
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Liberia
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Libya
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Lithuania
			3.44 billion cu m (2007 est.) 
				Luxembourg
			1.329 billion cu m (2007 est.) 
				Macau
			81.9 million cu m (2008 est.) 
				Macedonia
			102.8 million cu m (2007) 
				Madagascar
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Malawi
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Malaysia
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Maldives
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Mali
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Malta
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Mauritania
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Mauritius
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Mexico
			11.69 billion cu m (2007 est.) 
				Moldova
			2.44 billion cu m (2007 est.) 
				Mongolia
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Montserrat
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Morocco
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Mozambique
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Namibia
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Nauru
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Nepal
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Netherlands
			25.73 billion cu m (2007 est.) 
				Netherlands Antilles
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				New Caledonia
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				New Zealand
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Nicaragua
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Niger
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Nigeria
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Niue
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Norway
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Oman
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Pakistan
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Panama
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Papua New Guinea
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Paraguay
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Peru
			0 cu m (2008 est.) 
				Philippines
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Poland
			10.12 billion cu m (2007 est.) 
				Portugal
			4.095 billion cu m (2007 est.) 
				Puerto Rico
			736.2 million cu m (2007 est.) 
				Qatar
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Romania
			4.8 billion cu m (2007 est.) 
				Russia
			68.2 billion cu m (2007 est.) 
				Rwanda
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Saint Helena
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Saint Kitts and Nevis
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Saint Lucia
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Saint Pierre and Miquelon
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Saint Vincent and the Grenadines
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Samoa
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Sao Tome and Principe
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Saudi Arabia
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Senegal
			NA cu m 
				Serbia
			2.1 billion cu m (2004 est.) 
				Seychelles
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Sierra Leone
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Singapore
			6.6 billion cu m 
				note: from Indonesia and Malaysia (2008 est.) 
				Slovakia
			6.268 billion cu m (2007 est.) 
				Slovenia
			1.073 billion cu m (2005) 
				Solomon Islands
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Somalia
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				South Africa
			0 cu m (2005) 
				Spain
			34.47 billion cu m (2007 est.) 
				Sudan
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Suriname
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Swaziland
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Sweden
			1.006 billion cu m (2007 est.) 
				Switzerland
			3.232 billion cu m (2007 est.) 
				Syria
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Taiwan
			10.9 billion cu m (2007) 
				Tajikistan
			810 million cu m (2007 est.) 
				Tanzania
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Thailand
			9.8 billion cu m (2007 est.) 
				Timor-Leste
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Togo
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Tonga
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Trinidad and Tobago
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Tunisia
			0 cu m (2005) 
				Turkey
			35.83 billion cu m (2007 est.) 
				Turkmenistan
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Turks and Caicos Islands
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Uganda
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Ukraine
			65.4 billion cu m (2007 est.) 
				United Arab Emirates
			1.343 billion cu m (2005) 
				United Kingdom
			29.2 billion cu m (2007 est.) 
				United States
			130.3 billion cu m (2007 est.) 
				Uruguay
			116.9 million cu m (2007) 
				Uzbekistan
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Vanuatu
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Venezuela
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Vietnam
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Virgin Islands
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Western Sahara
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				World
			957.6 billion cu m (2007) 
				Yemen
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Zambia
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Zimbabwe
			0 cu m (2007 est.)  		
				This page was last updated on 19 March 2009
&nbsp; 
CIA - The World Factbook -- Field Listing - Exports - partners
&nbsp; 
				    &nbsp; 
                    Field Listing - Exports - partners
         Home 
          &nbsp;Reference Maps 
          &nbsp;Appendixes 
			Country
			Exports - partners (%) 
				Afghanistan
			India 22.8%, Pakistan 21.8%, US 20.5%, Tajikistan 7.2% (2007) 
				Albania
			Italy 72%, Greece 8.8%, China 2.7% (2007) 
				Algeria
			US 29.4%, Italy 13.8%, Spain 9.6%, Canada 8.4%, France 7.4%, Netherlands 5% (2007) 
				Angola
			US 32.1%, China 32%, France 5.9%, Taiwan 5.3%, South Africa 4.5% (2007) 
				Argentina
			Brazil 19.1%, China 9.4%, US 7.9%, Chile 7.6% (2007) 
				Armenia
			Russia 17.5%, Germany 14.7%, Netherlands 13.5%, Belgium 8.7%, Georgia 7.6%, US 6.6%, Switzerland 4.3%, Bulgaria 4.1%, Ukraine 4% (2007) 
				Aruba
			Panama 29.7%, Colombia 17%, Netherlands Antilles 13.2%, US 11.3%, Venezuela 10.9%, Netherlands 9.2% (2007) 
				Australia
			Japan 18.9%, China 14.2%, South Korea 8%, US 6%, NZ 5.6%, India 5.5%, UK 4.2% (2007) 
				Austria
			Germany 29.8%, Italy 8.8%, US 4.9%, Switzerland 4.3% (2007) 
				Azerbaijan
			Turkey 17.4%, Italy 15.5%, Russia 8.7%, Iran 7.2%, Indonesia 6.4%, Israel 6.1%, Georgia 5.7%, US 4.8%, France 4.3% (2007) 
				Bahamas, The
			US 20.4%, Singapore 15.5%, Spain 14.5%, Poland 14.3%, Germany 6.6%, Guatemala 5.7%, Switzerland 5.2% (2007) 
				Bahrain
			Saudi Arabia 3.5%, US 2.5%, UAE 2.5% 
				note: data exclude oil exports (2007) 
				Bangladesh
			US 23%, Germany 13%, UK 9.1%, France 5.5%, Belgium 4% (2007) 
				Barbados
			Trinidad and Tobago 15.5%, Jamaica 13.5%, UK 9.4%, US 9.3%, Brazil 8.3%, Saint Lucia 7.2%, Saint Vincent and the Grenadines 4.5% (2007) 
				Belarus
			Russia 36.5%, Netherlands 17.8%, UK 6.3%, Ukraine 6.1%, Poland 5%, Latvia 4.1% (2007) 
				Belgium
			Germany 19.5%, France 16.7%, Netherlands 11.9%, UK 7.6%, US 5.7%, Italy 5.2% (2007) 
				Belize
			US 28.7%, UK 16.3%, Thailand 5.8%, Cote d'Ivoire 5.4%, Finland 4.2%, Spain 4% (2007) 
				Benin
			China 24.7%, India 8.2%, Niger 6.6%, Togo 5.4%, Nigeria 5.3%, Belgium 4.6% (2007) 
				Bermuda
			Spain 13.8%, Germany 11.7%, Switzerland 8.8%, Denmark 6.6%, UK 6% (2007) 
				Bhutan
			India 58.6%, Hong Kong 30.1%, Bangladesh 7.3% (2007) 
				Bolivia
			Brazil 46%, US 9.8%, Japan 7.6%, Argentina 5.8%, South Korea 4.8%, Peru 4.1% (2007) 
				Bosnia and Herzegovina
			Croatia 21%, Slovenia 16.5%, Italy 16.1%, Germany 13.3%, Austria 9.6%, Hungary 5.7% (2007) 
				Brazil
			US 16.1%, Argentina 9.2%, China 6.8%, Netherlands 5.6%, Germany 4.6% (2007) 
				Brunei
			Japan 32.8%, Indonesia 24.4%, Australia 13.4%, South Korea 12.2%, US 5.5% (2007) 
				Bulgaria
			Turkey 11.5%, Germany 10.3%, Italy 10.2%, Greece 9.1%, Belgium 6.2%, Romania 4.9% (2007) 
				Burkina Faso
			China 29.6%, Singapore 15.7%, Thailand 7.2%, Ghana 6.4%, Niger 4.8% (2007) 
				Burma
			Thailand 44.3%, India 14.5%, China 7.1%, Japan 5.7% (2007) 
				Burundi
			Germany 31.3%, Pakistan 6.8%, Belgium 5.8%, Sweden 4.3%, Rwanda 4.3%, France 4.2%, Sudan 4% (2007) 
				Cambodia
			US 58.1%, Germany 7.3%, UK 5.2%, Canada 4.6%, Vietnam 4.5% (2007) 
				Cameroon
			Spain 19.8%, Italy 15.7%, France 11.7%, South Korea 9.4%, Netherlands 6.1%, US 5.7% (2007) 
				Canada
			US 78.9%, UK 2.8%, China 2.1% (2007) 
				Cape Verde
			Spain 37.2%, Portugal 29.9%, Morocco 7%, US 6.6% (2007) 
				Central African Republic
			Belgium 22.7%, Indonesia 19.3%, Italy 7.7%, France 7.1%, Spain 6.9%, Democratic Republic of the Congo 6.8%, China 4.9%, Turkey 4.7% (2007) 
				Chad
			US 89.5%, Japan 3.7%, China 3.4% (2007) 
				Chile
			China 14.8%, US 12.5%, Japan 10.5%, Netherlands 5.8%, South Korea 5.7%, Italy 5.1%, Brazil 5% (2007) 
				China
			US 19.1%, Hong Kong 15.1%, Japan 8.4%, South Korea 4.6%, Germany 4% (2007) 
				Colombia
			US 35.4%, Venezuela 17.4%, Ecuador 4.3% (2007) 
				Comoros
			Turkey 38%, France 27.5%, Singapore 9.2%, Saudi Arabia 4.1% (2007) 
				Congo, Democratic Republic of the
			Belgium 23.6%, China 21.7%, US 9.8%, Finland 9.1%, Brazil 9.1%, France 6.8%, Zambia 6% (2007) 
				Congo, Republic of the
			US 41%, China 36.5%, Taiwan 3.6% (2007) 
				Costa Rica
			US 25.7%, China 14.1%, Netherlands 10.9%, UK 6.3%, Mexico 5% (2007) 
				Cote d'Ivoire
			Germany 9.7%, Nigeria 9.2%, Netherlands 8.4%, France 7.3%, US 7%, Burkina Faso 4.4% (2007) 
				Croatia
			Italy 19.3%, Bosnia and Herzegovina 13.9%, Germany 10.2%, Slovenia 8.4%, Austria 6.2% (2007) 
				Cuba
			China 27.5%, Canada 26.9%, Netherlands 11.1%, Spain 4.7% (2007) 
				Cyprus
			Greece 21.1%, UK 14.3%, Germany 6.6% (2007) 
				Czech Republic
			Germany 30.7%, Slovakia 8.7%, Poland 5.9%, France 5.4%, UK 5.1%, Italy 4.9%, Austria 4.6% (2007) 
				Denmark
			Germany 17.4%, Sweden 14.5%, UK 8%, US 6.1%, Norway 5.7%, France 4.8%, Netherlands 4.8% (2007) 
				Djibouti
			Somalia 66.4%, Ethiopia 21.5%, Yemen 3.4% (2007) 
				Dominica
			China 24.4%, Jamaica 10.3%, Antigua and Barbuda 10.1%, Guyana 8.5%, UK 8.2%, Trinidad and Tobago 5.5%, Saint Lucia 4.6%, Saint Kitts & Nevis 4% (2007) 
				Dominican Republic
			US 66.4%, Belgium 3.7%, Finland 3.2% (2007) 
				Ecuador
			US 41.9%, Peru 8.5%, Chile 4.9%, Russia 4.8%, Colombia 4.7% (2007) 
				Egypt
			US 9.7%, Italy 9.5%, Spain 7.6%, Syria 5.5%, Saudi Arabia 4.9%, UK 4.2% (2007) 
				El Salvador
			US 51%, Guatemala 13.6%, Honduras 11.2%, Nicaragua 5.5% (2007) 
				Equatorial Guinea
			US 20.6%, China 18.8%, Spain 13.9%, Taiwan 13.4%, France 7.5%, Japan 6.5%, Portugal 6.4% (2007) 
				Eritrea
			Italy 34.4%, China 16.2%, Sudan 15.2%, France 9.4%, Saudi Arabia 5.2%, Australia 4.4% (2007) 
				Estonia
			Finland 17.9%, Sweden 13.2%, Latvia 11.4%, Russia 8.9%, Lithuania 5.8%, Germany 5.2%, US 4.1% (2007) 
				Ethiopia
			Germany 8.2%, Saudi Arabia 7%, US 6.9%, Djibouti 6.6%, China 6.5%, Italy 6.5%, Japan 5.9%, Netherlands 4.8% (2007) 
				Faroe Islands
			Denmark 29.6%, UK 24.5%, Norway 13.3%, Nigeria 10.5%, Netherlands 6.8% (2007) 
				Fiji
			US 17.3%, UK 11.3%, Australia 10%, Samoa 5.4%, Tonga 4.7%, NZ 4.5%, Japan 4.1% (2007) 
				Finland
			Germany 10.9%, Sweden 10.7%, Russia 10.3%, US 6.4%, UK 5.8%, Netherlands 5.6% (2007) 
				France
			Germany 14.9%, Spain 9.3%, Italy 8.9%, UK 8.1%, Belgium 7.3%, US 6.1%, Netherlands 4.1% (2007) 
				Gabon
			US 32.5%, China 15.8%, France 9.4%, Malaysia 6%, Trinidad and Tobago 5% (2007) 
				Gambia, The
			India 37.7%, China 17.5%, UK 8.7%, France 5.1%, Belgium 4.2% (2007) 
				Georgia
			Turkey 13%, US 11.2%, Azerbaijan 6.3%, UK 5.4%, Bulgaria 5.1%, Ukraine 5%, Armenia 4.8%, Turkmenistan 4.5%, Canada 4.2% (2007) 
				Germany
			France 9.7%, US 7.5%, UK 7.3%, Italy 6.7%, Netherlands 6.4%, Austria 5.4%, Belgium 5.3%, Spain 5% (2007) 
				Ghana
			Netherlands 11%, UK 9%, France 6.2%, US 5.9%, Germany 4.6%, Belgium 4.4% (2007) 
				Greece
			Germany 11.6%, Italy 10.8%, Cyprus 6.6%, Bulgaria 6.5%, UK 5.5%, Romania 4.5%, France 4.2%, US 4.2% (2007) 
				Greenland
			Denmark 61.8%, Japan 9.9%, Canada 7.3%, China 5.8% (2007) 
				Grenada
			Jamaica 92.8%, Saint Lucia 1.3%, US 1.2% (2007) 
				Guatemala
			US 42.2%, El Salvador 9.6%, Honduras 8.6%, Mexico 6.5%, Costa Rica 4.5% (2007) 
				Guinea
			Russia 10.8%, Ukraine 9.6%, Spain 8.8%, US 7.5%, Germany 7.4%, South Korea 7.2%, France 7%, Ireland 5.5%, China 5% (2007) 
				Guinea-Bissau
			Brazil 56.2%, India 33.6%, Nigeria 8.3% (2007) 
				Guyana
			Canada 18.7%, US 16.5%, UK 9.1%, Portugal 7.6%, Trinidad and Tobago 5.2%, France 4.7%, Netherlands 4.6%, Jamaica 4% (2007) 
				Haiti
			US 72.9%, Dominican Republic 8.8%, Canada 3.3% (2007) 
				Honduras
			US 67.2%, El Salvador 4.9%, Guatemala 3.9% (2007) 
				Hong Kong
			China 48.7%, US 13.7%, Japan 4.5% (2007) 
				Hungary
			Germany 28.1%, Italy 5.6%, France 4.7%, Austria 4.6%, Romania 4.5%, UK 4.5%, Slovakia 4.2%, Poland 4.2% (2007) 
				Iceland
			Netherlands 21.3%, Germany 13.3%, UK 13.2%, Ireland 7.7%, US 7.3%, Spain 4.6%, Japan 4.3% (2007) 
				India
			US 15%, China 8.7%, UAE 8.7%, UK 4.4% (2007) 
				Indonesia
			Japan 20.7%, US 10.2%, Singapore 9.2%, China 8.5%, South Korea 6.6%, Malaysia 4.5%, India 4.3% (2007) 
				Iran
			China 15%, Japan 14.3%, Turkey 7.4%, South Korea 7.3%, Italy 6.4% (2007) 
				Iraq
			US 36.8%, Italy 12.6%, South Korea 9.5%, Taiwan 6.3%, Spain 5.2%, Canada 4.7%, France 4.4%, Netherlands 4.2% (2007) 
				Ireland
			UK 18.7%, US 17.9%, Belgium 14.5%, Germany 7.4%, France 5.8% (2007) 
				Israel
			US 35%, Belgium 7.5%, Hong Kong 5.8% (2007) 
				Italy
			Germany 12.9%, France 11.4%, Spain 7.4%, US 6.8%, UK 5.8% (2007) 
				Jamaica
			US 37.2%, Canada 15%, UK 9.7%, Netherlands 9.1% (2007) 
				Japan
			US 20.4%, China 15.3%, South Korea 7.6%, Taiwan 6.3%, Hong Kong 5.4% (2007) 
				Jordan
			US 22.4%, Iraq 12.9%, India 8.3%, UAE 7.8%, Saudi Arabia 7.5%, Syria 4.9% (2007) 
				Kazakhstan
			China 15.5%, Germany 11.5%, Russia 11.2%, Italy 7.2%, France 6.7% (2007) 
				Kenya
			Uganda 16.9%, UK 9.3%, Tanzania 8.2%, Netherlands 8.2%, US 6.4%, Pakistan 5.2% (2007) 
				Korea, North
			South Korea 45%, China 35%, Thailand 5% (2007) 
				Korea, South
			China 22.1%, US 12.4%, Japan 7.1%, Hong Kong 5% (2007) 
				Kuwait
			Japan 19.9%, South Korea 17%, Taiwan 11.2%, Singapore 9.9%, US 8.4%, Netherlands 4.8%, China 4.4% (2007) 
				Kyrgyzstan
			Russia 20.7%, Switzerland 19.9%, Kazakhstan 18%, Afghanistan 10.4%, Uzbekistan 7.6%, China 5.5% (2007) 
				Laos
			Thailand 32.7%, Vietnam 14.3%, China 5.9%, South Korea 4.8% (2007) 
				Latvia
			Lithuania 15.1%, Estonia 13.8%, Russia 13%, Germany 8.3%, Sweden 7.4%, UK 6.5% (2007) 
				Lebanon
			Syria 25.2%, UAE 11.8%, Switzerland 8.2%, Saudi Arabia 5.6% (2007) 
				Lesotho
			US 71.5%, Belgium 25.6%, Canada 1.2% (2007) 
				Liberia
			Malaysia 27.5%, Poland 18.5%, Germany 11.5%, US 10.5%, Spain 8.2%, Norway 5.5% (2007) 
				Libya
			Italy 40.5%, Germany 12.2%, US 7.4%, Spain 7.4%, France 6.3% (2007) 
				Lithuania
			Russia 15%, Latvia 12.9%, Germany 10.5%, Poland 6.3%, Estonia 5.8%, UK 4.6%, Denmark 4.1%, Belarus 4% (2007) 
				Luxembourg
			Germany 21.1%, France 16.3%, Belgium 10.1%, Italy 7.4%, UK 7.1%, Netherlands 5.4%, Spain 5% (2007) 
				Macau
			US 40.6%, China 14.8%, Hong Kong 13.1%, Germany 6.4%, UK 4% (2007) 
				Macedonia
			Serbia and Montenegro 19.2%, Germany 14.5%, Greece 10.4%, Italy 10.1%, Bulgaria 9.8%, Croatia 5.6%, Belgium 5%, Spain 5% (2007) 
				Madagascar
			France 31.8%, US 26.6%, Germany 6.1%, UK 4.9%, Italy 4.4% (2007) 
				Malawi
			Germany 11.7%, South Africa 10%, Egypt 9.2%, Zimbabwe 8.2%, US 7.3%, Russia 5.8%, Netherlands 4.5% (2007) 
				Malaysia
			US 15.6%, Singapore 14.6%, Japan 9.1%, China 8.8%, Thailand 5%, Hong Kong 4.6% (2007) 
				Maldives
			Thailand 28.3%, UK 17.6%, France 8.8%, Sri Lanka 8.6%, Algeria 8.2%, Japan 6.4%, Italy 4.1% (2007) 
				Mali
			China 19.6%, Thailand 10.5%, Brazil 4.6%, France 4.5%, Indonesia 4.5% (2007) 
				Malta
			Singapore 14.4%, Germany 13.7%, France 12.6%, US 11.3%, UK 10%, Hong Kong 6.1%, Japan 4.9%, Italy 4% (2007) 
				Mauritania
			China 30.5%, France 9.5%, Italy 8.5%, Spain 8.5%, Japan 5.5%, Netherlands 5.3%, Belgium 5%, Cote d'Ivoire 4.7% (2007) 
				Mauritius
			UK 35.1%, France 14.4%, US 7.7%, Madagascar 6.3%, Italy 5.8% (2007) 
				Mexico
			US 82.2%, Canada 2.4%, Germany 1.5% (2007) 
				Moldova
			Russia 25.3%, Romania 13%, Italy 10%, Ukraine 8.7%, Germany 8.5%, Poland 6.2%, Belarus 4.2% (2007) 
				Mongolia
			China 71.9%, Canada 10.7%, US 4.8% (2007) 
				Morocco
			Spain 21.2%, France 19%, Italy 4.9%, UK 4.6%, India 4.2% (2007) 
				Mozambique
			Italy 19.4%, Belgium 18.4%, Spain 12.5%, South Africa 12.3%, UK 7.3%, China 4.1% (2007) 
				Nepal
			India 69.3%, US 8.8%, Germany 4.1% (2007) 
				Netherlands
			Germany 24.4%, Belgium 13.6%, UK 9.1%, France 8.5%, Italy 5.1%, US 4.3% (2007) 
				Netherlands Antilles
			US 18.9%, Mexico 13.3%, Panama 11.4%, Singapore 6.9%, Haiti 6.6%, Bahamas, The 5.3% (2007) 
				New Caledonia
			Japan 20.1%, China 14.5%, Taiwan 14.2%, France 11.6%, Belgium 10.4%, Spain 8.6%, South Africa 6.9% (2007) 
				New Zealand
			Australia 22%, US 11.5%, Japan 9.2%, China 5.3%, UK 4.6% (2007) 
				Nicaragua
			US 31.7%, El Salvador 14%, Honduras 9.3%, Costa Rica 7.2%, Canada 5.8%, Guatemala 5.5%, Mexico 4.8% (2007) 
				Niger
			France 57%, Nigeria 26.4%, Ghana 4.1% (2007) 
				Nigeria
			US 51.6%, Brazil 8.9%, Spain 7.7% (2007) 
				Norway
			UK 26.3%, Germany 12.3%, Netherlands 10.2%, France 8%, Sweden 6.5%, US 6.2% (2007) 
				Oman
			China 26.8%, South Korea 15.2%, Japan 14.3%, Thailand 10.4%, UAE 7.6%, US 4.3%, Iran 4.1% (2007) 
				Pakistan
			US 18%, UAE 10.4%, Afghanistan 8.4%, China 5.2%, UK 4.7% (2007) 
				Panama
			US 35.6%, Netherlands 10.2%, China 6%, Sweden 5.5%, UK 5.4%, Costa Rica 5.1%, Spain 5% (2007) 
				Papua New Guinea
			Australia 27.3%, Japan 9.5%, China 5.7% (2007) 
				Paraguay
			Argentina 28.1%, Uruguay 15.2%, Brazil 12.7%, Chile 5.9%, Germany 4.9%, Russia 4.5% (2007) 
				Peru
			US 19.5%, China 12.7%, Canada 7.6%, Japan 7.5%, Chile 5.9%, Switzerland 4.2%, Spain 4.1% (2007) 
				Philippines
			US 17%, Japan 14.5%, Hong Kong 11.5%, China 11.4%, Netherlands 8.2%, Singapore 6.2%, Malaysia 5%, Germany 4.3% (2007) 
				Poland
			Germany 25.9%, Italy 6.6%, France 6.1%, UK 5.9%, Czech Republic 5.5%, Russia 4.6% (2007) 
				Portugal
			Spain 27.1%, Germany 12.9%, France 12.3%, UK 5.9%, US 4.8%, Angola 4.5%, Italy 4% (2007) 
				Qatar
			Japan 39.9%, South Korea 19.9%, Singapore 9.9%, India 5.1%, Thailand 4.9%, UAE 4% (2007) 
				Romania
			Italy 17.2%, Germany 16.9%, France 7.7%, Turkey 7%, Hungary 5.6%, UK 4.1% (2007) 
				Russia
			Netherlands 12.2%, Italy 7.8%, Germany 7.5%, Turkey 5.2%, Belarus 5%, Ukraine 4.7%, China 4.5% (2007) 
				Rwanda
			China 8.9%, Germany 6.8%, US 4.9%, Hong Kong 4.8% (2007) 
				Saint Kitts and Nevis
			US 66.3%, Canada 4.9%, Turkey 3.3% (2007) 
				Saint Lucia
			US 24.5%, France 23.2%, UK 19.3%, Antigua and Barbuda 5%, Dominica 4.9%, Barbados 4.4%, Trinidad and Tobago 4.1% (2007) 
				Saint Vincent and the Grenadines
			Greece 28.4%, Italy 14.6%, France 12%, UK 7.5%, Trinidad and Tobago 4.8%, Spain 4.6%, Germany 4.3%, Saint Lucia 4.2% (2007) 
				Samoa
			Australia 48.1%, American Samoa 30%, Taiwan 8% (2007) 
				Sao Tome and Principe
			Netherlands 23.7%, Belgium 23.7%, France 12.9%, US 5.9%, Portugal 4.1% (2007) 
				Saudi Arabia
			US 17.1%, Japan 16.3%, South Korea 9.7%, China 8.1%, Taiwan 4.7%, Singapore 4% (2007) 
				Senegal
			Mali 18.9%, France 9.1%, Italy 5.9%, India 5.7%, Gambia, The 5.2% (2007) 
				Seychelles
			UK 23.7%, France 19.8%, Mauritius 10%, Japan 8.3%, Italy 5.7%, Spain 5.1% (2007) 
				Sierra Leone
			Belgium 49.3%, US 20.5%, Netherlands 4.5%, Canada 4.1% (2007) 
				Singapore
			Malaysia 12.9%, Hong Kong 10.5%, Indonesia 9.8%, China 9.7%, US 8.9%, Japan 4.8%, Thailand 4.1% (2007) 
				Slovakia
			Germany 21.4%, Czech Republic 12.6%, France 6.7%, Italy 6.4%, Poland 6.2%, Hungary 6%, Austria 5.8%, UK 4.8% (2007) 
				Slovenia
			Germany 18.7%, Italy 12.5%, Croatia 8%, Austria 7.5%, France 5.9%, Russia 4.4% (2007) 
				Solomon Islands
			China 50.8%, South Korea 7%, Thailand 6.5%, Japan 5.7%, Philippines 4.3% (2007) 
				Somalia
			UAE 50.7%, Yemen 21%, Oman 6.1% (2007) 
				South Africa
			US 11.9%, Japan 11.1%, Germany 8%, UK 7.7%, China 6.6%, Netherlands 4.5% (2007) 
				Spain
			France 18.8%, Germany 10.8%, Portugal 8.6%, Italy 8.5%, UK 7.6%, US 4.2% (2007) 
				Sri Lanka
			US 25.5%, UK 13.2%, India 6.7%, Germany 5.7%, Italy 5.1% (2007) 
				Sudan
			China 82.1%, Japan 8.4%, UAE 2.5% (2007) 
				Suriname
			Canada 26.8%, Norway 20.2%, Belgium 9.2%, US 8.9%, UAE 7.9%, France 7.2% (2007) 
				Sweden
			Germany 10.4%, Norway 9.4%, US 7.6%, Denmark 7.4%, UK 7.1%, Finland 6.4%, Netherlands 5.1%, France 5%, Belgium 4.6% (2007) 
				Switzerland
			Germany 20.3%, US 9.7%, Italy 8.7%, France 8.4%, UK 5.1% (2007) 
				Syria
			Iraq 30%, Lebanon 10%, Germany 9.7%, Italy 8%, Egypt 5.5%, Saudi Arabia 5.2%, France 4.9% (2007) 
				Taiwan
			China 32.6%, US 12.9%, Hong Kong 8.6%, Japan 6.4%, Singapore 5% (2007) 
				Tajikistan
			Netherlands 38.9%, Turkey 32.5%, Russia 6.6%, Uzbekistan 5.9%, Iran 5.1% (2007) 
				Tanzania
			China 10.3%, India 9.7%, Netherlands 6.5%, Germany 6.3%, UAE 4.9% (2007) 
				Thailand
			US 12.6%, Japan 11.9%, China 9.7%, Singapore 6.3%, Hong Kong 5.7%, Malaysia 5.1% (2007) 
				Togo
			Ghana 16.8%, Burkina Faso 14.5%, Germany 9.2%, Benin 9.1%, Netherlands 5.9%, Mali 5.8%, India 4.7% (2007) 
				Tonga
			US 36.7%, Japan 21.6%, NZ 10.1%, Fiji 5.8%, Samoa 4.9% (2007) 
				Trinidad and Tobago
			US 57.5%, Jamaica 6.5%, Spain 3.9% (2007) 
				Tunisia
			France 31.3%, Italy 21%, Germany 8.5%, Spain 5.5%, Libya 5.5% (2007) 
				Turkey
			Germany 11.2%, UK 8.1%, Italy 7%, France 5.6%, Russia 4.4%, Spain 4.3% (2007) 
				Turkmenistan
			Ukraine 51.3%, Iran 18.5%, Turkey 5% (2007) 
				Uganda
			Netherlands 10.2%, Belgium 9.8%, Germany 7.9%, France 7.2%, Rwanda 5.6% (2007) 
				Ukraine
			Russia 23.3%, Turkey 7.9%, Italy 5.8% (2007) 
				United Arab Emirates
			Japan 23.6%, South Korea 9.2%, Thailand 5%, India 4.8% (2007) 
				United Kingdom
			US 14.2%, Germany 11.1%, France 8.1%, Ireland 8%, Netherlands 6.8%, Belgium 5.3%, Spain 4.5%, Italy 4.1% (2007) 
				United States
			Canada 21.4%, Mexico 11.7%, China 5.6%, Japan 5.4%, UK 4.3%, Germany 4.3% (2007) 
				Uruguay
			Brazil 15.5%, US 9.4%, Argentina 8.4%, Mexico 6.6%, China 6.1%, Germany 4.8% (2007) 
				Uzbekistan
			Russia 22.4%, Poland 10.4%, Turkey 9.4%, Kazakhstan 6.1%, Hungary 6%, China 5.6%, Ukraine 4.8%, Bangladesh 4.3% (2007) 
				Vanuatu
			Thailand 58.3%, India 18.5%, Japan 11.3% (2007) 
				Venezuela
			US 42.7%, Netherlands Antilles 8%, China 3.1% (2007) 
				Vietnam
			US 20.8%, Japan 12.5%, Australia 7.3%, China 6.9%, Singapore 4.5% (2007) 
				World
			US 13.7%, Germany 7.3%, China 6.2%, France 4.6%, UK 4.5%, Japan 4.1% (2007) 
				Yemen
			China 23.3%, India 20.4%, Thailand 19.1%, Japan 7.2%, UAE 5%, US 4.2% (2007) 
				Zambia
			Switzerland 41.8%, South Africa 12%, Thailand 5.9%, Democratic Republic of the Congo 5.3%, Egypt 5%, Saudi Arabia 4.7%, China 4.1% (2007) 
				Zimbabwe
			South Africa 33.8%, Democratic Republic of the Congo 8.3%, Japan 8.1%, Botswana 7.4%, Netherlands 5.2%, China 5.2%, Italy 4.1%, Zambia 4.1% (2007)  		
				This page was last updated on 19 March 2009
&nbsp; 
CIA - The World Factbook -- Field Listing - Population below poverty line
&nbsp; 
				    &nbsp; 
                    Field Listing - Population below poverty line
         Home 
          &nbsp;Reference Maps 
          &nbsp;Appendixes 
			Country
			Population below poverty line (%) 
				Afghanistan
				Albania
			25% (2004 est.) 
				Algeria
			25% (2005 est.) 
				American Samoa
			NA% 
				Andorra
			NA% 
				Angola
			70% (2003 est.) 
				Anguilla
				Antigua and Barbuda
			NA% 
				Argentina
			23.4% (January-June 2007) 
				Armenia
			26.5% (2006 est.) 
				Aruba
			NA% 
				Australia
			NA% 
				Austria
				Azerbaijan
			24% (2005 est.) 
				Bahamas, The
				Bahrain
			NA% 
				Bangladesh
			45% (2004 est.) 
				Barbados
			NA% 
				Belarus
			27.1% (2003 est.) 
				Belgium
			15.2% (2007 est.) 
				Belize
			33.5% (2002 est.) 
				Benin
			37.4% (2007 est.) 
				Bermuda
				Bhutan
				Bolivia
			60% (2006 est.) 
				Bosnia and Herzegovina
			25% (2004 est.) 
				Botswana
				Brazil
				British Virgin Islands
			NA% 
				Brunei
			NA% 
				Bulgaria
			14.1% (2003 est.) 
				Burkina Faso
				Burma
			32.7% (2007 est.) 
				Burundi
			68% (2002 est.) 
				Cambodia
				Cameroon
			48% (2000 est.) 
				Canada
			10.8%; note - this figure is the Low Income Cut-Off (LICO), a calculation that results in higher figures than found in many comparable economies; Canada does not have an official poverty line (2005) 
				Cape Verde
				Cayman Islands
			NA% 
				Central African Republic
			NA% 
				Chad
			80% (2001 est.) 
				Chile
				China
				note: 21.5 million rural population live below the official "absolute poverty" line (approximately $90 per year); and an additional 35.5 million rural population above that but below the official "low income" line (approximately $125 per year) (2006 est.) 
				Colombia
				Comoros
			60% (2002 est.) 
				Congo, Democratic Republic of the
			NA% 
				Congo, Republic of the
			NA% 
				Cook Islands
			NA% 
				Costa Rica
			16% (2006 est.) 
				Cote d'Ivoire
			42% (2006 est.) 
				Croatia
				Cuba
			NA% 
				Cyprus
			NA% 
				Czech Republic
			NA% 
				Denmark
			NA% 
				Djibouti
			42% (2007 est.) 
				Dominica
			30% (2002 est.) 
				Dominican Republic
				Ecuador
				Egypt
			20% (2005 est.) 
				El Salvador
			30.7% (2006 est.) 
				Equatorial Guinea
			NA% 
				Eritrea
			50% (2004 est.) 
				Estonia
				Ethiopia
			38.7% (FY05/06 est.) 
				European Union
			note - see individual country entries of member states 
				Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas)
			NA% 
				Faroe Islands
			NA% 
				Fiji
			25.5% (FY90/91) 
				Finland
			NA% 
				France
				French Polynesia
			NA% 
				Gabon
			NA% 
				Gambia, The
			NA% 
				Gaza Strip
			80% (2007 est.) 
				Georgia
				Germany
			11% (2001 est.) 
				Ghana
			28.5% (2007 est.) 
				Gibraltar
			NA% 
				Greece
			NA% 
				Greenland
			NA% 
				Grenada
				Guam
			23% (2001 est.) 
				Guatemala
			56.2% (2004 est.) 
				Guernsey
			NA% 
				Guinea
			47% (2006 est.) 
				Guinea-Bissau
			NA% 
				Guyana
			NA% 
				Haiti
			80% (2003 est.) 
				Holy See (Vatican City)
			NA% 
				Honduras
				Hong Kong
			NA% 
				Hungary
			8.6% (1993 est.) 
				Iceland
			NA% 
				India
			25% (2007 est.) 
				Indonesia
				Iran
			18% (2007 est.) 
				Iraq
			NA% 
				Ireland
			7% (2005 est.) 
				Isle of Man
			NA% 
				Israel
				note: Israel's poverty line is $7.30 per person per day (2005) 
				Italy
			NA% 
				Jamaica
			14.8% (2003 est.) 
				Japan
			NA% 
				Jersey
			NA% 
				Jordan
				Kazakhstan
				Kenya
			50% (2000 est.) 
				Kiribati
			NA% 
				Korea, North
			NA% 
				Korea, South
			15% (2003 est.) 
				Kosovo
			37% (2007 est.) 
				Kuwait
			NA% 
				Kyrgyzstan
			40% (2004 est.) 
				Laos
			30.7% (2005 est.) 
				Latvia
			NA% 
				Lebanon
			28% (1999 est.) 
				Lesotho
				Liberia
			80% (2000 est.) 
				Libya
			7.4% (2005 est.) 
				Liechtenstein
			NA% 
				Lithuania
				Luxembourg
			NA% 
				Macau
			NA% 
				Macedonia
				Madagascar
			50% (2004 est.) 
				Malawi
				Malaysia
			5.1% (2002 est.) 
				Maldives
				Mali
			36.1% (2005 est.) 
				Malta
			NA% 
				Marshall Islands
			NA% 
				Mauritania
			40% (2004 est.) 
				Mauritius
			8% (2006 est.) 
				Mayotte
			NA% 
				Mexico
			13.8% using food-based definition of poverty; asset based poverty amounted to more than 40% (2006) 
				Micronesia, Federated States of
				Moldova
				Monaco
			NA% 
				Mongolia
				Montenegro
			7% (2007 est.) 
				Montserrat
			NA% 
				Morocco
			15% (2007 est.) 
				Mozambique
			70% (2001 est.) 
				Namibia
			the UNDP's 2005 Human Development Report indicated that 34.9% of the population live on $1 per day and 55.8% live on $2 per day 
				Nauru
			NA% 
				Nepal
				Netherlands
				Netherlands Antilles
			NA% 
				New Caledonia
			NA% 
				New Zealand
			NA% 
				Nicaragua
				Niger
			63% (1993 est.) 
				Nigeria
			70% (2007 est.) 
				Niue
			NA% 
				Northern Mariana Islands
			NA% 
				Norway
			NA% 
				Oman
			NA% 
				Pakistan
			24% (FY05/06 est.) 
				Palau
			NA% 
				Panama
			37% (1999 est.) 
				Papua New Guinea
			37% (2002 est.) 
				Paraguay
			32% (2005 est.) 
				Peru
				Philippines
			30% (2003 est.) 
				Poland
			17% (2003 est.) 
				Portugal
				Puerto Rico
			NA% 
				Qatar
			NA% 
				Romania
			25% (2005 est.) 
				Russia
			15.8% (November 2007) 
				Rwanda
			60% (2001 est.) 
				Saint Helena
			NA% 
				Saint Kitts and Nevis
			NA% 
				Saint Lucia
			NA% 
				Saint Pierre and Miquelon
			NA% 
				Saint Vincent and the Grenadines
			NA% 
				Samoa
			NA% 
				San Marino
			NA% 
				Sao Tome and Principe
			54% (2004 est.) 
				Saudi Arabia
			NA% 
				Senegal
			54% (2001 est.) 
				Serbia
			6.5% (2007 est.) 
				Seychelles
			NA% 
				Sierra Leone
				Singapore
			NA% 
				Slovakia
				Slovenia
				Solomon Islands
			NA% 
				Somalia
			NA% 
				South Africa
			50% (2000 est.) 
				Spain
				Sri Lanka
			22% (2002 est.) 
				Sudan
			40% (2004 est.) 
				Suriname
			70% (2002 est.) 
				Swaziland
				Sweden
			NA% 
				Switzerland
			NA% 
				Syria
			11.9% (2006 est.) 
				Taiwan
			0.95% (2007 est.) 
				Tajikistan
			60% (2007 est.) 
				Tanzania
			36% (2002 est.) 
				Thailand
			10% (2004 est.) 
				Timor-Leste
			42% (2003 est.) 
				Togo
			32% (1989 est.) 
				Tokelau
			NA% 
				Tonga
			24% (FY03/04) 
				Trinidad and Tobago
			17% (2007 est.) 
				Tunisia
			7.4% (2005 est.) 
				Turkey
				Turkmenistan
			30% (2004 est.) 
				Turks and Caicos Islands
			NA% 
				Tuvalu
			NA% 
				Uganda
			35% (2001 est.) 
				Ukraine
				United Arab Emirates
				United Kingdom
			14% (2006 est.) 
				United States
			12% (2004 est.) 
				Uruguay
			27.4% of households (2006) 
				Uzbekistan
			33% (2004 est.) 
				Vanuatu
			NA% 
				Venezuela
			37.9% (end 2005 est.) 
				Vietnam
			14.8% (2007 est.) 
				Virgin Islands
				Wallis and Futuna
			NA% 
				West Bank
			46% (2007 est.) 
				Western Sahara
			NA% 
				Yemen
				Zambia
				Zimbabwe
				This page was last updated on 13 November 2008
&nbsp; 
CIA - The World Factbook -- Field Listing - Freshwater withdrawal (domestic/industrial/agricultural)
&nbsp; 
				    &nbsp; 
                    Field Listing - Freshwater withdrawal (domestic/industrial/agricultural)
         Home 
          &nbsp;Reference Maps 
          &nbsp;Appendixes 
			Country
			Freshwater withdrawal (domestic/industrial/agricultural) () 
				Afghanistan
				total: 23.26  cu km/yr (2%/0%/98%) 
				per capita: 779  cu m/yr (2000) 
				Albania
				total: 1.71  cu km/yr (27%/11%/62%) 
				per capita: 546  cu m/yr (2000) 
				Algeria
				total: 6.07  cu km/yr (22%/13%/65%) 
				per capita: 185  cu m/yr (2000) 
				Angola
				total: 0.35  cu km/yr (23%/17%/60%) 
				per capita: 22  cu m/yr (2000) 
				Antigua and Barbuda
				total: 0.005  cu km/yr (60%/20%/20%) 
				per capita: 63  cu m/yr (1990) 
				Argentina
				total: 29.19  cu km/yr (17%/9%/74%) 
				per capita: 753  cu m/yr (2000) 
				Armenia
				total: 2.95  cu km/yr (30%/4%/66%) 
				per capita: 977  cu m/yr (2000) 
				Australia
				total: 24.06  cu km/yr (15%/10%/75%) 
				per capita: 1,193  cu m/yr (2000) 
				Austria
				total: 3.67  cu km/yr (35%/64%/1%) 
				per capita: 448  cu m/yr (1999) 
				Azerbaijan
				total: 17.25  cu km/yr (5%/28%/68%) 
				per capita: 2,051  cu m/yr (2000) 
				Bahrain
				total: 0.3  cu km/yr (40%/3%/57%) 
				per capita: 411  cu m/yr (2000) 
				Bangladesh
				total: 79.4  cu km/yr (3%/1%/96%) 
				per capita: 560  cu m/yr (2000) 
				Barbados
				total: 0.09  cu km/yr (33%/44%/22%) 
				per capita: 333  cu m/yr (2000) 
				Belarus
				total: 2.79  cu km/yr (23%/47%/30%) 
				per capita: 286  cu m/yr (2000) 
				Belgium
				total: 7.44  cu km/yr (13%/85%/1%) 
				per capita: 714  cu m/yr (1998) 
				Belize
				total: 0.15  cu km/yr (7%/73%/20%) 
				per capita: 556  cu m/yr (2000) 
				Benin
				total: 0.13  cu km/yr (32%/23%/45%) 
				per capita: 15  cu m/yr (2001) 
				Bhutan
				total: 0.43  cu km/yr (5%/1%/94%) 
				per capita: 199  cu m/yr (2000) 
				Bolivia
				total: 1.44  cu km/yr (13%/7%/81%) 
				per capita: 157  cu m/yr (2000) 
				Botswana
				total: 0.19  cu km/yr (41%/18%/41%) 
				per capita: 107  cu m/yr (2000) 
				Brazil
				total: 59.3  cu km/yr (20%/18%/62%) 
				per capita: 318  cu m/yr (2000) 
				Brunei
				total: 0.09 
				per capita: 243  cu m/yr (1994) 
				Bulgaria
				total: 6.92  cu km/yr (3%/78%/19%) 
				per capita: 895  cu m/yr (2003) 
				Burkina Faso
				total: 0.8  cu km/yr (13%/1%/86%) 
				per capita: 60  cu m/yr (2000) 
				Burma
				total: 33.23  cu km/yr (1%/1%/98%) 
				per capita: 658  cu m/yr (2000) 
				Burundi
				total: 0.29  cu km/yr (17%/6%/77%) 
				per capita: 38  cu m/yr (2000) 
				Cambodia
				total: 4.08  cu km/yr (1%/0%/98%) 
				per capita: 290  cu m/yr (2000) 
				Cameroon
				total: 0.99  cu km/yr (18%/8%/74%) 
				per capita: 61  cu m/yr (2000) 
				Canada
				total: 44.72  cu km/yr (20%/69%/12%) 
				per capita: 1,386  cu m/yr (1996) 
				Cape Verde
				total: 0.02  cu km/yr (7%/2%/91%) 
				per capita: 39  cu m/yr (2000) 
				Central African Republic
				total: 0.03  cu km/yr (80%/16%/4%) 
				per capita: 7  cu m/yr (2000) 
				Chad
				total: 0.23  cu km/yr (17%/0%/83%) 
				per capita: 24  cu m/yr (2000) 
				Chile
				total: 12.55  cu km/yr (11%/25%/64%) 
				per capita: 770  cu m/yr (2000) 
				China
				total: 549.76  cu km/yr (7%/26%/68%) 
				per capita: 415  cu m/yr (2000) 
				Colombia
				total: 10.71  cu km/yr (50%/4%/46%) 
				per capita: 235  cu m/yr (2000) 
				Comoros
				total: 0.01  cu km/yr (48%/5%/47%) 
				per capita: 13  cu m/yr (1999) 
				Congo, Democratic Republic of the
				total: 0.36  cu km/yr (53%/17%/31%) 
				per capita: 6  cu m/yr (2000) 
				Congo, Republic of the
				total: 0.03  cu km/yr (59%/29%/12%) 
				per capita: 8  cu m/yr (2000) 
				Costa Rica
				total: 2.68  cu km/yr (29%/17%/53%) 
				per capita: 619  cu m/yr (2000) 
				Cote d'Ivoire
				total: 0.93  cu km/yr (24%/12%/65%) 
				per capita: 51  cu m/yr (2000) 
				Cuba
				total: 8.2  cu km/yr (19%/12%/69%) 
				per capita: 728  cu m/yr (2000) 
				Cyprus
				total: 0.21  cu km/yr (27%/1%/71%) 
				per capita: 250  cu m/yr (2000) 
				Czech Republic
				total: 1.91  cu km/yr (41%/57%/2%) 
				per capita: 187  cu m/yr (2002) 
				Denmark
				total: 0.67  cu km/yr (32%/26%/42%) 
				per capita: 123  cu m/yr (2002) 
				Djibouti
				total: 0.02  cu km/yr (84%/0%/16%) 
				per capita: 25  cu m/yr (2000) 
				Dominica
				total: 0.02  cu km/yr 
				per capita: 213  cu m/yr (1996) 
				Dominican Republic
				total: 3.39  cu km/yr (32%/2%/66%) 
				per capita: 381  cu m/yr (2000) 
				Ecuador
				total: 16.98  cu km/yr (12%/5%/82%) 
				per capita: 1,283  cu m/yr (2000) 
				Egypt
				total: 68.3  cu km/yr (8%/6%/86%) 
				per capita: 923  cu m/yr (2000) 
				El Salvador
				total: 1.28  cu km/yr (25%/16%/59%) 
				per capita: 186  cu m/yr (2000) 
				Equatorial Guinea
				total: 0.11  cu km/yr (83%/16%/1%) 
				per capita: 220  cu m/yr (2000) 
				Eritrea
				total: 0.3  cu km/yr (3%/0%/97%) 
				per capita: 68  cu m/yr (2000) 
				Estonia
				total: 1.41  cu km/yr (56%/39%/5%) 
				per capita: 1,060  cu m/yr (2002) 
				Ethiopia
				total: 5.56  cu km/yr (6%/0%/94%) 
				per capita: 72  cu m/yr (2002) 
				Fiji
				total: 0.07  cu km/yr (14%/14%/71%) 
				per capita: 82  cu m/yr (2000) 
				Finland
				total: 2.33  cu km/yr (14%/84%/3%) 
				per capita: 444  cu m/yr (1999) 
				France
				total: 33.16  cu km/yr (16%/74%/10%) 
				per capita: 548  cu m/yr (2000) 
				Gabon
				total: 0.12  cu km/yr (50%/8%/42%) 
				per capita: 87  cu m/yr (2000) 
				Gambia, The
				total: 0.03  cu km/yr (23%/12%/65%) 
				per capita: 20  cu m/yr (2000) 
				Georgia
				total: 3.61  cu km/yr (20%/21%/59%) 
				per capita: 808  cu m/yr (2000) 
				Germany
				total: 38.01  cu km/yr (12%/68%/20%) 
				per capita: 460  cu m/yr (2001) 
				Ghana
				total: 0.98  cu km/yr (24%/10%/66%) 
				per capita: 44  cu m/yr (2000) 
				Greece
				total: 8.7  cu km/yr (16%/3%/81%) 
				per capita: 782  cu m/yr (1997) 
				Guatemala
				total: 2.01  cu km/yr (6%/13%/80%) 
				per capita: 160  cu m/yr (2000) 
				Guinea
				total: 1.51  cu km/yr (8%/2%/90%) 
				per capita: 161  cu m/yr (2000) 
				Guinea-Bissau
				total: 0.18  cu km/yr (13%/5%/82%) 
				per capita: 113  cu m/yr (2000) 
				Guyana
				total: 1.64  cu km/yr (2%/1%/98%) 
				per capita: 2,187  cu m/yr (2000) 
				Haiti
				total: 0.99  cu km/yr (5%/1%/94%) 
				per capita: 116  cu m/yr (2000) 
				Honduras
				total: 0.86  cu km/yr (8%/12%/80%) 
				per capita: 119  cu m/yr (2000) 
				Hungary
				total: 21.03  cu km/yr (9%/59%/32%) 
				per capita: 2,082  cu m/yr (2001) 
				Iceland
				total: 0.17  cu km/yr (34%/66%/0%) 
				per capita: 567  cu m/yr (2003) 
				India
				total: 645.84  cu km/yr (8%/5%/86%) 
				per capita: 585  cu m/yr (2000) 
				Indonesia
				total: 82.78  cu km/yr (8%/1%/91%) 
				per capita: 372  cu m/yr (2000) 
				Iran
				total: 72.88  cu km/yr (7%/2%/91%) 
				per capita: 1,048  cu m/yr (2000) 
				Iraq
				total: 42.7  cu km/yr (3%/5%/92%) 
				per capita: 1,482  cu m/yr (2000) 
				Ireland
				total: 1.18  cu km/yr (23%/77%/0%) 
				per capita: 284  cu m/yr (1994) 
				Israel
				total: 2.05  cu km/yr (31%/7%/62%) 
				per capita: 305  cu m/yr (2000) 
				Italy
				total: 41.98  cu km/yr (18%/37%/45%) 
				per capita: 723  cu m/yr (1998) 
				Jamaica
				total: 0.41  cu km/yr (34%/17%/49%) 
				per capita: 155  cu m/yr (2000) 
				Japan
				total: 88.43  cu km/yr (20%/18%/62%) 
				per capita: 690  cu m/yr (2000) 
				Jordan
				total: 1.01  cu km/yr (21%/4%/75%) 
				per capita: 177  cu m/yr (2000) 
				Kazakhstan
				total: 35  cu km/yr (2%/17%/82%) 
				per capita: 2,360  cu m/yr (2000) 
				Kenya
				total: 1.58  cu km/yr (30%/6%/64%) 
				per capita: 46  cu m/yr (2000) 
				Korea, North
				total: 9.02  cu km/yr (20%/25%/55%) 
				per capita: 401  cu m/yr (2000) 
				Korea, South
				total: 18.59  cu km/yr (36%/16%/48%) 
				per capita: 389  cu m/yr (2000) 
				Kuwait
				total: 0.44  cu km/yr (45%/2%/52%) 
				per capita: 164  cu m/yr (2000) 
				Kyrgyzstan
				total: 10.08  cu km/yr (3%/3%/94%) 
				per capita: 1,916  cu m/yr (2000) 
				Laos
				total: 3  cu km/yr (4%/6%/90%) 
				per capita: 507  cu m/yr (2000) 
				Latvia
				total: 0.25  cu km/yr (55%/33%/12%) 
				per capita: 108  cu m/yr (2003) 
				Lebanon
				total: 1.38  cu km/yr (33%/1%/67%) 
				per capita: 385  cu m/yr (2000) 
				Lesotho
				total: 0.05  cu km/yr (40%/40%/20%) 
				per capita: 28  cu m/yr (2000) 
				Liberia
				total: 0.11  cu km/yr (27%/18%/55%) 
				per capita: 34  cu m/yr (2000) 
				Libya
				total: 4.27  cu km/yr (14%/3%/83%) 
				per capita: 730  cu m/yr (2000) 
				Lithuania
				total: 3.33  cu km/yr (78%/15%/7%) 
				per capita: 971  cu m/yr (2003) 
				Luxembourg
				total: 0.06  cu km/yr (42%/45%/13%) 
				per capita: 121  cu m/yr (1999) 
				Macedonia
				total: 2.27 
				per capita: 1,118  cu m/yr (2000) 
				Madagascar
				total: 14.96  cu km/yr (3%/2%/96%) 
				per capita: 804  cu m/yr (2000) 
				Malawi
				total: 1.01  cu km/yr (15%/5%/80%) 
				per capita: 78  cu m/yr (2000) 
				Malaysia
				total: 9.02  cu km/yr (17%/21%/62%) 
				per capita: 356  cu m/yr (2000) 
				Maldives
				total: 0.003  cu km/yr (98%/2%/0%) 
				per capita: 9  cu m/yr (1987) 
				Mali
				total: 6.55  cu km/yr (9%/1%/90%) 
				per capita: 484  cu m/yr (2000) 
				Malta
				total: 0.02  cu km/yr (74%/1%/25%) 
				per capita: 50  cu m/yr (2000) 
				Mauritania
				total: 1.7  cu km/yr (9%/3%/88%) 
				per capita: 554  cu m/yr (2000) 
				Mauritius
				total: 0.61  cu km/yr (25%/14%/60%) 
				per capita: 488  cu m/yr (2000) 
				Mexico
				total: 78.22  cu km/yr (17%/5%/77%) 
				per capita: 731  cu m/yr (2000) 
				Moldova
				total: 2.31  cu km/yr (10%/58%/33%) 
				per capita: 549  cu m/yr (2000) 
				Mongolia
				total: 0.44  cu km/yr (20%/27%/52%) 
				per capita: 166  cu m/yr (2000) 
				Morocco
				total: 12.6  cu km/yr (10%/3%/87%) 
				per capita: 400  cu m/yr (2000) 
				Mozambique
				total: 0.63  cu km/yr (11%/2%/87%) 
				per capita: 32  cu m/yr (2000) 
				Namibia
				total: 0.3  cu km/yr (24%/5%/71%) 
				per capita: 148  cu m/yr (2000) 
				Nepal
				total: 10.18  cu km/yr (3%/1%/96%) 
				per capita: 375  cu m/yr (2000) 
				Netherlands
				total: 8.86  cu km/yr (6%/60%/34%) 
				per capita: 544  cu m/yr (2001) 
				New Zealand
				total: 2.11  cu km/yr (48%/9%/42%) 
				per capita: 524  cu m/yr (2000) 
				Nicaragua
				total: 1.3  cu km/yr (15%/2%/83%) 
				per capita: 237  cu m/yr (2000) 
				Niger
				total: 2.18  cu km/yr (4%/0%/95%) 
				per capita: 156  cu m/yr (2000) 
				Nigeria
				total: 8.01  cu km/yr (21%/10%/69%) 
				per capita: 61  cu m/yr (2000) 
				Norway
				total: 2.4  cu km/yr (23%/67%/10%) 
				per capita: 519  cu m/yr (1996) 
				Oman
				total: 1.36  cu km/yr (7%/2%/90%) 
				per capita: 529  cu m/yr (2000) 
				Pakistan
				total: 169.39  cu km/yr (2%/2%/96%) 
				per capita: 1,072  cu m/yr (2000) 
				Panama
				total: 0.82  cu km/yr (67%/5%/28%) 
				per capita: 254  cu m/yr (2000) 
				Papua New Guinea
				total: 0.1  cu km/yr (56%/43%/1%) 
				per capita: 17  cu m/yr (1987) 
				Paraguay
				total: 0.49  cu km/yr (20%/8%/71%) 
				per capita: 80  cu m/yr (2000) 
				Peru
				total: 20.13  cu km/yr (8%/10%/82%) 
				per capita: 720  cu m/yr (2000) 
				Philippines
				total: 28.52  cu km/yr (17%/9%/74%) 
				per capita: 343  cu m/yr (2000) 
				Poland
				total: 11.73  cu km/yr (13%/79%/8%) 
				per capita: 304  cu m/yr (2002) 
				Portugal
				total: 11.09  cu km/yr (10%/12%/78%) 
				per capita: 1,056  cu m/yr (1998) 
				Qatar
				total: 0.29  cu km/yr (24%/3%/72%) 
				per capita: 358  cu m/yr (2000) 
				Romania
				total: 6.5  cu km/yr (9%/34%/57%) 
				per capita: 299  cu m/yr (2003) 
				Russia
				total: 76.68  cu km/yr (19%/63%/18%) 
				per capita: 535  cu m/yr (2000) 
				Rwanda
				total: 0.15  cu km/yr (24%/8%/68%) 
				per capita: 17  cu m/yr (2000) 
				Saint Lucia
				total: 0.01 
				per capita: 81  cu m/yr (1997) 
				Saint Vincent and the Grenadines
				total: 0.01 
				per capita: 83  cu m/yr (1995) 
				Saudi Arabia
				total: 17.32  cu km/yr (10%/1%/89%) 
				per capita: 705  cu m/yr (2000) 
				Senegal
				total: 2.22  cu km/yr (4%/3%/93%) 
				per capita: 190  cu m/yr (2002) 
				Sierra Leone
				total: 0.38  cu km/yr (5%/3%/92%) 
				per capita: 69  cu m/yr (2000) 
				Singapore
				total: 0.19  cu km/yr (45%/51%/4%) 
				per capita: 44  cu m/yr (1975) 
				Slovakia
				total: 1.04 
				per capita: 193  cu m/yr (2003) 
				Slovenia
				total: 0.9 
				per capita: 457  cu m/yr (2002) 
				Somalia
				total: 3.29  cu km/yr (0%/0%/100%) 
				per capita: 400  cu m/yr (2000) 
				South Africa
				total: 12.5  cu km/yr (31%/6%/63%) 
				per capita: 264  cu m/yr (2000) 
				Spain
				total: 37.22  cu km/yr (13%/19%/68%) 
				per capita: 864  cu m/yr (2002) 
				Sri Lanka
				total: 12.61  cu km/yr (2%/2%/95%) 
				per capita: 608  cu m/yr (2000) 
				Sudan
				total: 37.32  cu km/yr (3%/1%/97%) 
				per capita: 1,030  cu m/yr (2000) 
				Suriname
				total: 0.67  cu km/yr (4%/3%/93%) 
				per capita: 1,489  cu m/yr (2000) 
				Swaziland
				total: 1.04  cu km/yr (2%/1%/97%) 
				per capita: 1,010  cu m/yr (2000) 
				Sweden
				total: 2.68  cu km/yr (37%/54%/9%) 
				per capita: 296  cu m/yr (2002) 
				Switzerland
				total: 2.52  cu km/yr (24%/74%/2%) 
				per capita: 348  cu m/yr (2002) 
				Syria
				total: 19.95  cu km/yr (3%/2%/95%) 
				per capita: 1,048  cu m/yr (2000) 
				Tajikistan
				total: 11.96  cu km/yr (4%/5%/92%) 
				per capita: 1,837  cu m/yr (2000) 
				Tanzania
				total: 5.18  cu km/yr (10%/0%/89%) 
				per capita: 135  cu m/yr (2000) 
				Thailand
				total: 82.75  cu km/yr (2%/2%/95%) 
				per capita: 1,288  cu m/yr (2000) 
				Togo
				total: 0.17  cu km/yr (53%/2%/45%) 
				per capita: 28  cu m/yr (2000) 
				Trinidad and Tobago
				total: 0.31  cu km/yr (68%/26%/6%) 
				per capita: 237  cu m/yr (2000) 
				Tunisia
				total: 2.64  cu km/yr (14%/4%/82%) 
				per capita: 261  cu m/yr (2000) 
				Turkey
				total: 39.78  cu km/yr (15%/11%/74%) 
				per capita: 544  cu m/yr (2001) 
				Turkmenistan
				total: 24.65  cu km/yr (2%/1%/98%) 
				per capita: 5,104  cu m/yr (2000) 
				Uganda
				total: 0.3  cu km/yr (43%/17%/40%) 
				per capita: 10  cu m/yr (2002) 
				Ukraine
				total: 37.53  cu km/yr (12%/35%/52%) 
				per capita: 807  cu m/yr (2000) 
				United Arab Emirates
				total: 2.3  cu km/yr (23%/9%/68%) 
				per capita: 511  cu m/yr (2000) 
				United Kingdom
				total: 11.75  cu km/yr (22%/75%/3%) 
				per capita: 197  cu m/yr (1994) 
				United States
				total: 477  cu km/yr (13%/46%/41%) 
				per capita: 1,600  cu m/yr (2000) 
				Uruguay
				total: 3.15  cu km/yr (2%/1%/96%) 
				per capita: 910  cu m/yr (2000) 
				Uzbekistan
				total: 58.34  cu km/yr (5%/2%/93%) 
				per capita: 2,194  cu m/yr (2000) 
				Venezuela
				total: 8.37  cu km/yr (6%/7%/47%) 
				per capita: 313  cu m/yr (2000) 
				Vietnam
				total: 71.39  cu km/yr (8%/24%/68%) 
				per capita: 847  cu m/yr (2000) 
				Yemen
				total: 6.63  cu km/yr (4%/1%/95%) 
				per capita: 316  cu m/yr (2000) 
				Zambia
				total: 1.74  cu km/yr (17%/7%/76%) 
				per capita: 149  cu m/yr (2000) 
				Zimbabwe
				total: 4.21  cu km/yr (14%/7%/79%) 
				per capita: 324  cu m/yr (2002)  		
				This page was last updated on 19 March 2009
&nbsp; 
CIA - The World Factbook -- Field Listing - Natural gas - exports
&nbsp; 
				    &nbsp; 
                    Field Listing - Natural gas - exports
         Home 
          &nbsp;Reference Maps 
          &nbsp;Appendixes 
          		&nbsp;Rank Order List
			Country
			Natural gas - exports (cu m) 
				Afghanistan
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Albania
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Algeria
			59.4 billion cu m (2007 est.) 
				American Samoa
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Angola
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Antigua and Barbuda
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Argentina
			2.6 billion cu m (2007 est.) 
				Armenia
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Aruba
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Australia
			19.91 billion cu m (2007 est.) 
				Austria
			2.767 billion cu m (2007 est.) 
				Azerbaijan
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Bahamas, The
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Bahrain
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Bangladesh
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Barbados
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Belarus
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Belgium
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Belize
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Benin
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Bermuda
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Bhutan
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Bolivia
			11.7 billion cu m (2007 est.) 
				Bosnia and Herzegovina
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Botswana
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Brazil
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				British Virgin Islands
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Brunei
			9.4 billion cu m (2007 est.) 
				Bulgaria
			0 cu m (2007) 
				Burkina Faso
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Burma
			9.9 billion cu m (2007 est.) 
				Burundi
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Cambodia
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Cameroon
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Canada
			107.3 billion cu m (2007 est.) 
				Cape Verde
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Cayman Islands
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Central African Republic
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Chad
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Chile
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				China
			5.36 billion cu m (2007 est.) 
				Colombia
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Comoros
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Congo, Democratic Republic of the
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Congo, Republic of the
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Cook Islands
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Costa Rica
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Cote d'Ivoire
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Croatia
			751.7 million cu m (2007) 
				Cuba
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Cyprus
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Czech Republic
			402 million cu m (2007 est.) 
				Denmark
			4.517 billion cu m (2007 est.) 
				Djibouti
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Dominica
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Dominican Republic
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Ecuador
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Egypt
			15.7 billion cu m (2007 est.) 
				El Salvador
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Equatorial Guinea
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Eritrea
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Estonia
			0 cu m (2007) 
				Ethiopia
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				European Union
			NA cu m 
				Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas)
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Faroe Islands
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Fiji
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Finland
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				France
			966 million cu m (2007 est.) 
				French Polynesia
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Gabon
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Gambia, The
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Georgia
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Germany
			12.22 billion cu m (2007 est.) 
				Ghana
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Gibraltar
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Greece
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Greenland
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Grenada
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Guam
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Guatemala
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Guinea
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Guinea-Bissau
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Guyana
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Haiti
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Honduras
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Hong Kong
			0 cu m (2008) 
				Hungary
			138 million cu m (2007 est.) 
				Iceland
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				India
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Indonesia
			32.6 billion cu m (2007 est.) 
				Iran
			6.2 billion cu m (2007 est.) 
				Iraq
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Ireland
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Israel
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Italy
			68 million cu m (2007 est.) 
				Jamaica
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Japan
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Jordan
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Kazakhstan
			8.1 billion cu m (2007 est.) 
				Kenya
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Kiribati
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Korea, North
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Korea, South
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Kuwait
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Kyrgyzstan
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Laos
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Latvia
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Lebanon
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Lesotho
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Liberia
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Libya
			9.9 billion cu m (2007 est.) 
				Lithuania
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Luxembourg
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Macau
			0 cu m (2008 est.) 
				Macedonia
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Madagascar
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Malawi
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Malaysia
			31.6 billion cu m (2007 est.) 
				Maldives
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Mali
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Malta
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Mauritania
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Mauritius
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Mexico
			2.973 billion cu m (2007 est.) 
				Moldova
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Mongolia
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Montserrat
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Morocco
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Mozambique
			0 cu m (2005 est.) 
				Namibia
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Nauru
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Nepal
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Netherlands
			55.66 billion cu m (2007 est.) 
				Netherlands Antilles
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				New Caledonia
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				New Zealand
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Nicaragua
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Niger
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Nigeria
			21.2 billion cu m (2007 est.) 
				Niue
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Norway
			85.7 billion cu m (2007 est.) 
				Oman
			13.1 billion cu m (2007 est.) 
				Pakistan
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Panama
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Papua New Guinea
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Paraguay
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Peru
			0 cu m (2008 est.) 
				Philippines
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Poland
			45 million cu m (2007 est.) 
				Portugal
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Puerto Rico
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Qatar
			39.3 billion cu m (2007 est.) 
				Romania
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Russia
			173 billion cu m (2007 est.) 
				Rwanda
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Saint Helena
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Saint Kitts and Nevis
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Saint Lucia
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Saint Pierre and Miquelon
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Saint Vincent and the Grenadines
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Samoa
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Sao Tome and Principe
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Saudi Arabia
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Senegal
			NA cu m 
				Serbia
			0 cu m (2005 est.) 
				Seychelles
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Sierra Leone
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Singapore
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Slovakia
			180 million cu m (2007 est.) 
				Slovenia
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Solomon Islands
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Somalia
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				South Africa
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Spain
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Sri Lanka
			0 cu m (2008 est.) 
				Sudan
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Suriname
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Swaziland
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Sweden
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Switzerland
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Syria
			NA cu m 
				Taiwan
			0 cu m (2008 est.) 
				Tajikistan
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Tanzania
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Thailand
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Timor-Leste
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Togo
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Tonga
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Trinidad and Tobago
			18.1 billion cu m (2007 est.) 
				Tunisia
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Turkey
			31 million cu m (2007 est.) 
				Turkmenistan
			49.4 billion cu m (2007 est.) 
				Turks and Caicos Islands
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Uganda
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Ukraine
			4 billion cu m (2006 est.) 
				United Arab Emirates
			6.848 billion cu m (2005 est.) 
				United Kingdom
			10.4 billion cu m (2007 est.) 
				United States
			23.28 billion cu m (2007 est.) 
				Uruguay
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Uzbekistan
			14.01 billion cu m (2007 est.) 
				Vanuatu
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Venezuela
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Vietnam
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Virgin Islands
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Western Sahara
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				World
			929.9 billion cu m (2007 est.) 
				Yemen
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Zambia
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Zimbabwe
			0 cu m (2007 est.)  		
				This page was last updated on 19 March 2009
&nbsp; 
CIA - The World Factbook -- Field Listing - Oil - imports
&nbsp; 
				    &nbsp; 
                    Field Listing - Oil - imports
         Home 
          &nbsp;Reference Maps 
          &nbsp;Appendixes 
          		&nbsp;Rank Order List
			Country
			Oil - imports (bbl/day) 
				Afghanistan
			4,534 bbl/day (2005) 
				Albania
			24,860 bbl/day (2005 est.) 
				Algeria
			13,110 bbl/day (2005 est.) 
				American Samoa
			4,066 bbl/day (2005) 
				Angola
			19,550 bbl/day (2005) 
				Antigua and Barbuda
			4,556 bbl/day (2005) 
				Argentina
			23,380 bbl/day (2005) 
				Armenia
			44,670 bbl/day (2005) 
				Aruba
			238,200 bbl/day (2005) 
				Australia
			615,000 bbl/day (2005) 
				Austria
			313,500 bbl/day (2005) 
				Azerbaijan
			4,267 bbl/day (2005) 
				Bahamas, The
			69,780 bbl/day (2005) 
				Bahrain
			221,500 bbl/day (2005) 
				Bangladesh
			83,220 bbl/day (2005) 
				Barbados
			10,710 bbl/day (2005) 
				Belarus
			394,100 bbl/day (2005 est.) 
				Belgium
			1.119 million bbl/day (2005) 
				Belize
			7,122 bbl/day (2005) 
				Benin
			16,830 bbl/day (2007 est.) 
				Bermuda
			4,378 bbl/day (2005) 
				Bhutan
			1,152 bbl/day (2005) 
				Bolivia
			8,600 bbl/day (2007 est.) 
				Bosnia and Herzegovina
			27,370 bbl/day (2005) 
				Botswana
			14,500 bbl/day (2005) 
				Brazil
			648,800 bbl/day (2005) 
				British Virgin Islands
			650 bbl/day (2005) 
				Brunei
			304 bbl/day (2005) 
				Bulgaria
			145,200 bbl/day (2007) 
				Burkina Faso
			8,446 bbl/day (2005) 
				Burma
			22,180 bbl/day (2005 est.) 
				Burundi
			2,635 bbl/day (2005) 
				Cambodia
			3,618 bbl/day (2005) 
				Cameroon
			50,750 bbl/day (2005) 
				Canada
			1.229 million bbl/day (2005) 
				Cape Verde
			1,785 bbl/day (2005) 
				Cayman Islands
			2,818 bbl/day (2005) 
				Central African Republic
			2,057 bbl/day (2005) 
				Chad
			1,492 bbl/day (2005) 
				Chile
			222,900 bbl/day (2006 est.) 
				China
			4.21 million bbl/day (2007) 
				Colombia
			12,480 bbl/day (2005) 
				Comoros
			755 bbl/day (2005) 
				Congo, Democratic Republic of the
			8,220 bbl/day (2006 est.) 
				Congo, Republic of the
			1,702 bbl/day (2005) 
				Cook Islands
			476 bbl/day (2005) 
				Costa Rica
			43,110 bbl/day (2005) 
				Cote d'Ivoire
			71,850 bbl/day (2005) 
				Croatia
			83,800 bbl/day (2007) 
				Cuba
			123,200 bbl/day (2005) 
				Cyprus
			55,970 bbl/day (2005) 
				Czech Republic
			224,600 bbl/day (2005) 
				Denmark
			164,000 bbl/day (2006 est.) 
				Djibouti
			11,810 bbl/day (2005) 
				Dominica
			670 bbl/day (2005) 
				Dominican Republic
			116,600 bbl/day (2005) 
				Ecuador
			47,060 bbl/day (2005) 
				Egypt
			140,000 bbl/day (2005) 
				El Salvador
			45,210 bbl/day (2006) 
				Equatorial Guinea
			1,070 bbl/day (2005) 
				Eritrea
			4,924 bbl/day (2005) 
				Estonia
			28,170 bbl/day (2005) 
				Ethiopia
			29,820 bbl/day (2005) 
				European Union
			NA bbl/day 
				Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas)
			249 bbl/day (2005) 
				Faroe Islands
			4,636 bbl/day (2005) 
				Fiji
			10,900 bbl/day (2005) 
				Finland
			331,200 bbl/day (2007) 
				France
			2.465 million bbl/day (2005) 
				French Polynesia
			6,271 bbl/day (2005) 
				Gabon
			2,485 bbl/day (2005) 
				Gambia, The
			2,123 bbl/day (2005) 
				Georgia
			15,820 bbl/day (2005) 
				Germany
			3.026 million bbl/day (2005) 
				Ghana
			45,520 bbl/day (2005) 
				Gibraltar
			25,080 bbl/day (2005) 
				Greece
			527,200 bbl/day (2005) 
				Greenland
			4,089 bbl/day (2005) 
				Grenada
			1,844 bbl/day (2005) 
				Guam
			13,530 bbl/day (2005) 
				Guatemala
			72,960 bbl/day (2006 est.) 
				Guinea
			8,811 bbl/day (2005) 
				Guinea-Bissau
			2,560 bbl/day (2005) 
				Guyana
			10,960 bbl/day (2005) 
				Haiti
			11,980 bbl/day (2005) 
				Honduras
			44,040 bbl/day (2005) 
				Hong Kong
			334,900 bbl/day (2008) 
				Hungary
			178,400 bbl/day (2005) 
				Iceland
			17,450 bbl/day (2005) 
				India
			2.159 million bbl/day (2005 est.) 
				Indonesia
			500,000 bbl/day (2006 est.) 
				Iran
			210,000 bbl/day (2007) 
				Iraq
			NA bbl/day 
				Ireland
			194,000 bbl/day (2005) 
				Israel
			334,300 bbl/day (2005) 
				Italy
			2.223 million bbl/day (2005) 
				Jamaica
			71,280 bbl/day (2005) 
				Japan
			5.032 million bbl/day (2007) 
				Jordan
			112,300 bbl/day (2005 est.) 
				Kazakhstan
			127,600 bbl/day (2005) 
				Kenya
			72,780 bbl/day (2005) 
				Kiribati
			259 bbl/day (2005) 
				Korea, North
			10,520 bbl/day (2007 est.) 
				Korea, South
			2.37 million bbl/day (2008) 
				Kuwait
			8,022 bbl/day (2005) 
				Kyrgyzstan
			14,240 bbl/day (2005) 
				Laos
			3,036 bbl/day (2005) 
				Latvia
			45,340 bbl/day (2005) 
				Lebanon
			97,590 bbl/day (2005) 
				Lesotho
			1,500 bbl/day (2005) 
				Liberia
			3,593 bbl/day (2005) 
				Libya
			575 bbl/day (2005) 
				Lithuania
			206,700 bbl/day (2005) 
				Luxembourg
			63,760 bbl/day (2005) 
				Macau
			5,027 bbl/day (2008 est.) 
				Macedonia
			26,470 bbl/day (2005) 
				Madagascar
			17,100 bbl/day (2005) 
				Malawi
			6,788 bbl/day (2005) 
				Malaysia
			308,500 bbl/day (2005) 
				Maldives
			5,362 bbl/day (2005) 
				Mali
			4,860 bbl/day (2005 est.) 
				Malta
			18,910 bbl/day (2005) 
				Mauritania
			23,630 bbl/day (2005) 
				Mauritius
			23,650 bbl/day (2006) 
				Mexico
			385,400 bbl/day (2005) 
				Moldova
			14,450 bbl/day (2005) 
				Mongolia
			12,630 bbl/day (2005 est.) 
				Montenegro
			6,093 bbl/day (2005) 
				Montserrat
			483 bbl/day (2005) 
				Morocco
			192,500 bbl/day (2005 est.) 
				Mozambique
			13,240 bbl/day (2005) 
				Namibia
			17,750 bbl/day (2005) 
				Nauru
			1,049 bbl/day (2005) 
				Nepal
			11,530 bbl/day (2006 est.) 
				Netherlands
			2.648 million bbl/day (2005) 
				Netherlands Antilles
			277,600 bbl/day (2005) 
				New Caledonia
			11,780 bbl/day (2005) 
				New Zealand
			137,300 bbl/day (2005) 
				Nicaragua
			29,700 bbl/day (2005 est.) 
				Niger
			5,425 bbl/day (2005) 
				Nigeria
			154,300 bbl/day (2005) 
				Niue
			27 bbl/day (2005) 
				Norway
			92,650 bbl/day (2005) 
				Oman
			15,440 bbl/day (2005) 
				Pakistan
			290,600 bbl/day (2005) 
				Panama
			88,790 bbl/day (2005) 
				Papua New Guinea
			24,150 bbl/day (2005) 
				Paraguay
			25,940 bbl/day (2007) 
				Peru
			109,000 bbl/day (2007 est.) 
				Philippines
			355,800 bbl/day (2005) 
				Poland
			499,200 bbl/day (2005) 
				Portugal
			390,300 bbl/day (2005) 
				Puerto Rico
			230,700 bbl/day (2005) 
				Qatar
			0 bbl/day (2005) 
				Romania
			219,000 bbl/day (2005) 
				Russia
			54,000 bbl/day (2005) 
				Rwanda
			5,597 bbl/day (2005) 
				Saint Helena
			85 bbl/day (2005) 
				Saint Kitts and Nevis
			918 bbl/day (2005) 
				Saint Lucia
			2,631 bbl/day (2005) 
				Saint Pierre and Miquelon
			557 bbl/day (2005) 
				Saint Vincent and the Grenadines
			1,460 bbl/day (2005) 
				Samoa
			1,128 bbl/day (2005) 
				Sao Tome and Principe
			660 bbl/day (2005) 
				Saudi Arabia
			41,680 bbl/day (2005) 
				Senegal
			40,450 bbl/day (2005) 
				Serbia
			NA bbl/day 
				Seychelles
			5,722 bbl/day (2005) 
				Sierra Leone
			8,271 bbl/day (2005) 
				Singapore
			2.44 million bbl/day (2007) 
				Slovakia
			134,100 bbl/day (2005) 
				Slovenia
			59,110 bbl/day (2005) 
				Solomon Islands
			1,426 bbl/day (2005) 
				Somalia
			4,772 bbl/day (2005) 
				South Africa
			319,000 bbl/day (2006 est.) 
				Spain
			1.777 million bbl/day (2005) 
				Sri Lanka
			87,090 bbl/day (2005) 
				Sudan
			7,558 bbl/day (2005) 
				Suriname
			6,369 bbl/day (2005) 
				Swaziland
			3,530 bbl/day (2005) 
				Sweden
			581,000 bbl/day (2005) 
				Switzerland
			274,900 bbl/day (2005) 
				Syria
			160,000 bbl/day (2007 est.) 
				Taiwan
			660,400 bbl/day (2007) 
				Tajikistan
			7,600 bbl/day (2007) 
				Tanzania
			26,760 bbl/day (2005) 
				Thailand
			832,900 bbl/day (2005) 
				Togo
			16,650 bbl/day (2005) 
				Tonga
			1,035 bbl/day (2005) 
				Trinidad and Tobago
			72,780 bbl/day (2005) 
				Tunisia
			89,130 bbl/day (2005) 
				Turkey
			714,100 bbl/day (2005) 
				Turkmenistan
			5,283 bbl/day (2005) 
				Turks and Caicos Islands
			84 bbl/day (2005) 
				Uganda
			11,540 bbl/day (2005) 
				Ukraine
			441,200 bbl/day (2005) 
				United Arab Emirates
			232,300 bbl/day (2005) 
				United Kingdom
			1.673 million bbl/day (2005) 
				United States
			13.71 million bbl/day (2005) 
				Uruguay
			43,670 bbl/day (2007) 
				Uzbekistan
			31,440 bbl/day (2005) 
				Vanuatu
			671 bbl/day (2005) 
				Venezuela
			0 bbl/day (2006 est.) 
				Vietnam
			271,100 bbl/day (2007) 
				Virgin Islands
			492,300 bbl/day (2005) 
				Western Sahara
			1,925 bbl/day (2005) 
				World
			65.41 million bbl/day (2005) 
				Yemen
			62,850 bbl/day (2005) 
				Zambia
			13,810 bbl/day (2005) 
				Zimbabwe
			15,800 bbl/day (2005 est.)  		
				This page was last updated on 19 March 2009
&nbsp; 
CIA - The World Factbook -- Field Listing - Location
&nbsp; 
				    &nbsp; 
                    Field Listing - Location
         Home 
          &nbsp;Reference Maps 
          &nbsp;Appendixes 
			Country
			Location 	
				Afghanistan
			Southern Asia, north and west of Pakistan, east of Iran 
				Akrotiri
			Eastern Mediterranean, peninsula on the southwest coast of Cyprus 
				Albania
			Southeastern Europe, bordering the Adriatic Sea and Ionian Sea, between Greece in the south and Montenegro and Kosovo to the north 
				Algeria
			Northern Africa, bordering the Mediterranean Sea, between Morocco and Tunisia 
				American Samoa
			Oceania, group of islands in the South Pacific Ocean, about half way between Hawaii and New Zealand 
				Andorra
			Southwestern Europe, between France and Spain 
				Angola
			Southern Africa, bordering the South Atlantic Ocean, between Namibia and Democratic Republic of the Congo 
				Anguilla
			Caribbean, islands between the Caribbean Sea and North Atlantic Ocean, east of Puerto Rico 
				Antarctica
			continent mostly south of the Antarctic Circle 
				Antigua and Barbuda
			Caribbean, islands between the Caribbean Sea and the North Atlantic Ocean, east-southeast of Puerto Rico 
				Arctic Ocean
			body of water between Europe, Asia, and North America, mostly north of the Arctic Circle 
				Argentina
			Southern South America, bordering the South Atlantic Ocean, between Chile and Uruguay 
				Armenia
			Southwestern Asia, east of Turkey 
				Aruba
			Caribbean, island in the Caribbean Sea, north of Venezuela 
				Ashmore and Cartier Islands
			Southeastern Asia, islands in the Indian Ocean, midway between northwestern Australia and Timor island 
				Atlantic Ocean
			body of water between Africa, Europe, the Southern Ocean, and the Western Hemisphere 
				Australia
			Oceania, continent between the Indian Ocean and the South Pacific Ocean 
				Austria
			Central Europe, north of Italy and Slovenia 
				Azerbaijan
			Southwestern Asia, bordering the Caspian Sea, between Iran and Russia, with a small European portion north of the Caucasus range 
				Bahamas, The
			Caribbean, chain of islands in the North Atlantic Ocean, southeast of Florida, northeast of Cuba 
				Bahrain
			Middle East, archipelago in the Persian Gulf, east of Saudi Arabia 
				Bangladesh
			Southern Asia, bordering the Bay of Bengal, between Burma and India 
				Barbados
			Caribbean, island in the North Atlantic Ocean, northeast of Venezuela 
				Belarus
			Eastern Europe, east of Poland 
				Belgium
			Western Europe, bordering the North Sea, between France and the Netherlands 
				Belize
			Central America, bordering the Caribbean Sea, between Guatemala and Mexico 
				Benin
			Western Africa, bordering the Bight of Benin, between Nigeria and Togo 
				Bermuda
			North America, group of islands in the North Atlantic Ocean, east of South Carolina (US) 
				Bhutan
			Southern Asia, between China and India 
				Bolivia
			Central South America, southwest of Brazil 
				Bosnia and Herzegovina
			Southeastern Europe, bordering the Adriatic Sea and Croatia 
				Botswana
			Southern Africa, north of South Africa 
				Bouvet Island
			island in the South Atlantic Ocean, southwest of the Cape of Good Hope (South Africa) 
				Brazil
			Eastern South America, bordering the Atlantic Ocean 
				British Indian Ocean Territory
			archipelago in the Indian Ocean, south of India, about halfway between Africa and Indonesia 
				British Virgin Islands
			Caribbean, between the Caribbean Sea and the North Atlantic Ocean, east of Puerto Rico 
				Brunei
			Southeastern Asia, bordering the South China Sea and Malaysia 
				Bulgaria
			Southeastern Europe, bordering the Black Sea, between Romania and Turkey 
				Burkina Faso
			Western Africa, north of Ghana 
				Burma
			Southeastern Asia, bordering the Andaman Sea and the Bay of Bengal, between Bangladesh and Thailand 
				Burundi
			Central Africa, east of Democratic Republic of the Congo 
				Cambodia
			Southeastern Asia, bordering the Gulf of Thailand, between Thailand, Vietnam, and Laos 
				Cameroon
			Western Africa, bordering the Bight of Biafra, between Equatorial Guinea and Nigeria 
				Canada
			Northern North America, bordering the North Atlantic Ocean on the east, North Pacific Ocean on the west, and the Arctic Ocean on the north, north of the conterminous US 
				Cape Verde
			Western Africa, group of islands in the North Atlantic Ocean, west of Senegal 
				Cayman Islands
			Caribbean, three-island group (Grand Cayman, Cayman Brac, Little Cayman) in Caribbean Sea, 240 km south of Cuba and 268 km northwest of Jamaica 
				Central African Republic
			Central Africa, north of Democratic Republic of the Congo 
				Chad
			Central Africa, south of Libya 
				Chile
			Southern South America, bordering the South Pacific Ocean, between Argentina and Peru 
				China
			Eastern Asia, bordering the East China Sea, Korea Bay, Yellow Sea, and South China Sea, between North Korea and Vietnam 
				Christmas Island
			Southeastern Asia, island in the Indian Ocean, south of Indonesia 
				Clipperton Island
			Middle America, atoll in the North Pacific Ocean, 1,120 km southwest of Mexico 
				Cocos (Keeling) Islands
			Southeastern Asia, group of islands in the Indian Ocean, southwest of Indonesia, about halfway from Australia to Sri Lanka 
				Colombia
			Northern South America, bordering the Caribbean Sea, between Panama and Venezuela, and bordering the North Pacific Ocean, between Ecuador and Panama 
				Comoros
			Southern Africa, group of islands at the northern mouth of the Mozambique Channel, about two-thirds of the way between northern Madagascar and northern Mozambique 
				Congo, Democratic Republic of the
			Central Africa, northeast of Angola 
				Congo, Republic of the
			Western Africa, bordering the South Atlantic Ocean, between Angola and Gabon 
				Cook Islands
			Oceania, group of islands in the South Pacific Ocean, about half way between Hawaii and New Zealand 
				Coral Sea Islands
			Oceania, islands in the Coral Sea, northeast of Australia 
				Costa Rica
			Central America, bordering both the Caribbean Sea and the North Pacific Ocean, between Nicaragua and Panama 
				Cote d'Ivoire
			Western Africa, bordering the North Atlantic Ocean, between Ghana and Liberia 
				Croatia
			Southeastern Europe, bordering the Adriatic Sea, between Bosnia and Herzegovina and Slovenia 
				Cuba
			Caribbean, island between the Caribbean Sea and the North Atlantic Ocean, 150 km south of Key West, Florida 
				Cyprus
			Middle East, island in the Mediterranean Sea, south of Turkey 
				Czech Republic
			Central Europe, southeast of Germany 
				Denmark
			Northern Europe, bordering the Baltic Sea and the North Sea, on a peninsula north of Germany (Jutland); also includes two major islands (Sjaelland and Fyn) 
				Dhekelia
			Eastern Mediterranean, on the southeast coast of Cyprus near Famagusta 
				Djibouti
			Eastern Africa, bordering the Gulf of Aden and the Red Sea, between Eritrea and Somalia 
				Dominica
			Caribbean, island between the Caribbean Sea and the North Atlantic Ocean, about half way between Puerto Rico and Trinidad and Tobago 
				Dominican Republic
			Caribbean, eastern two-thirds of the island of Hispaniola, between the Caribbean Sea and the North Atlantic Ocean, east of Haiti 
				Ecuador
			Western South America, bordering the Pacific Ocean at the Equator, between Colombia and Peru 
				Egypt
			Northern Africa, bordering the Mediterranean Sea, between Libya and the Gaza Strip, and the Red Sea north of Sudan, and includes the Asian Sinai Peninsula 
				El Salvador
			Central America, bordering the North Pacific Ocean, between Guatemala and Honduras 
				Equatorial Guinea
			Western Africa, bordering the Bight of Biafra, between Cameroon and Gabon 
				Eritrea
			Eastern Africa, bordering the Red Sea, between Djibouti and Sudan 
				Estonia
			Eastern Europe, bordering the Baltic Sea and Gulf of Finland, between Latvia and Russia 
				Ethiopia
			Eastern Africa, west of Somalia 
				European Union
			Europe between the North Atlantic Ocean in the west and Russia, Belarus, and Ukraine to the east 
				Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas)
			Southern South America, islands in the South Atlantic Ocean, east of southern Argentina 
				Faroe Islands
			Northern Europe, island group between the Norwegian Sea and the North Atlantic Ocean, about half way between Iceland and Norway 
				Fiji
			Oceania, island group in the South Pacific Ocean, about two-thirds of the way from Hawaii to New Zealand 
				Finland
			Northern Europe, bordering the Baltic Sea, Gulf of Bothnia, and Gulf of Finland, between Sweden and Russia 
				France
				metropolitan France: Western Europe, bordering the Bay of Biscay and English Channel, between Belgium and Spain, southeast of the UK; bordering the Mediterranean Sea, between Italy and Spain 
				French Guiana: Northern South America, bordering the North Atlantic Ocean, between Brazil and Suriname 
				Guadeloupe: Caribbean, islands between the Caribbean Sea and the North Atlantic Ocean, southeast of Puerto Rico 
				Martinique: Caribbean, island between the Caribbean Sea and North Atlantic Ocean, north of Trinidad and Tobago 
				Reunion: Southern Africa, island in the Indian Ocean, east of Madagascar 
				French Polynesia
			Oceania, archipelagoes in the South Pacific Ocean about half way between South America and Australia 
				French Southern and Antarctic Lands
			southeast and east of Africa, islands in the southern Indian Ocean, some near Madagascar and others about equidistant between Africa, Antarctica, and Australia; note - French Southern and Antarctic Lands include Ile Amsterdam, Ile Saint-Paul, Iles Crozet, Iles Kerguelen, Bassas da India, Europa Island, Glorioso Islands, Juan de Nova Island, and Tromelin Island in the southern Indian Ocean, along with the French-claimed sector of Antarctica, "Adelie Land"; the US does not recognize the French claim to "Adelie Land" 
				Gabon
			Western Africa, bordering the Atlantic Ocean at the Equator, between Republic of the Congo and Equatorial Guinea 
				Gambia, The
			Western Africa, bordering the North Atlantic Ocean and Senegal 
				Gaza Strip
			Middle East, bordering the Mediterranean Sea, between Egypt and Israel 
				Georgia
			Southwestern Asia, bordering the Black Sea, between Turkey and Russia 
				Germany
			Central Europe, bordering the Baltic Sea and the North Sea, between the Netherlands and Poland, south of Denmark 
				Ghana
			Western Africa, bordering the Gulf of Guinea, between Cote d'Ivoire and Togo 
				Gibraltar
			Southwestern Europe, bordering the Strait of Gibraltar, which links the Mediterranean Sea and the North Atlantic Ocean, on the southern coast of Spain 
				Greece
			Southern Europe, bordering the Aegean Sea, Ionian Sea, and the Mediterranean Sea, between Albania and Turkey 
				Greenland
			Northern North America, island between the Arctic Ocean and the North Atlantic Ocean, northeast of Canada 
				Grenada
			Caribbean, island between the Caribbean Sea and Atlantic Ocean, north of Trinidad and Tobago 
				Guam
			Oceania, island in the North Pacific Ocean, about three-quarters of the way from Hawaii to the Philippines 
				Guatemala
			Central America, bordering the North Pacific Ocean, between El Salvador and Mexico, and bordering the Gulf of Honduras (Caribbean Sea) between Honduras and Belize 
				Guernsey
			Western Europe, islands in the English Channel, northwest of France 
				Guinea
			Western Africa, bordering the North Atlantic Ocean, between Guinea-Bissau and Sierra Leone 
				Guinea-Bissau
			Western Africa, bordering the North Atlantic Ocean, between Guinea and Senegal 
				Guyana
			Northern South America, bordering the North Atlantic Ocean, between Suriname and Venezuela 
				Haiti
			Caribbean, western one-third of the island of Hispaniola, between the Caribbean Sea and the North Atlantic Ocean, west of the Dominican Republic 
				Heard Island and McDonald Islands
			islands in the Indian Ocean, about two-thirds of the way from Madagascar to Antarctica 
				Holy See (Vatican City)
			Southern Europe, an enclave of Rome (Italy) 
				Honduras
			Central America, bordering the Caribbean Sea, between Guatemala and Nicaragua and bordering the Gulf of Fonseca (North Pacific Ocean), between El Salvador and Nicaragua 
				Hong Kong
			Eastern Asia, bordering the South China Sea and China 
				Hungary
			Central Europe, northwest of Romania 
				Iceland
			Northern Europe, island between the Greenland Sea and the North Atlantic Ocean, northwest of the UK 
				India
			Southern Asia, bordering the Arabian Sea and the Bay of Bengal, between Burma and Pakistan 
				Indian Ocean
			body of water between Africa, the Southern Ocean, Asia, and Australia 
				Indonesia
			Southeastern Asia, archipelago between the Indian Ocean and the Pacific Ocean 
				Iran
			Middle East, bordering the Gulf of Oman, the Persian Gulf, and the Caspian Sea, between Iraq and Pakistan 
				Iraq
			Middle East, bordering the Persian Gulf, between Iran and Kuwait 
				Ireland
			Western Europe, occupying five-sixths of the island of Ireland in the North Atlantic Ocean, west of Great Britain 
				Isle of Man
			Western Europe, island in the Irish Sea, between Great Britain and Ireland 
				Israel
			Middle East, bordering the Mediterranean Sea, between Egypt and Lebanon 
				Italy
			Southern Europe, a peninsula extending into the central Mediterranean Sea, northeast of Tunisia 
				Jamaica
			Caribbean, island in the Caribbean Sea, south of Cuba 
				Jan Mayen
			Northern Europe, island between the Greenland Sea and the Norwegian Sea, northeast of Iceland 
				Japan
			Eastern Asia, island chain between the North Pacific Ocean and the Sea of Japan, east of the Korean Peninsula 
				Jersey
			Western Europe, island in the English Channel, northwest of France 
				Jordan
			Middle East, northwest of Saudi Arabia 
				Kazakhstan
			Central Asia, northwest of China; a small portion west of the Ural River in eastern-most Europe 
				Kenya
			Eastern Africa, bordering the Indian Ocean, between Somalia and Tanzania 
				Kiribati
			Oceania, group of 33 coral atolls in the Pacific Ocean, straddling the Equator; the capital Tarawa is about half way between Hawaii and Australia; note - on 1 January 1995, Kiribati proclaimed that all of its territory lies in the same time zone as its Gilbert Islands group (UTC +12) even though the Phoenix Islands and the Line Islands under its jurisdiction lie on the other side of the International Date Line 
				Korea, North
			Eastern Asia, northern half of the Korean Peninsula bordering the Korea Bay and the Sea of Japan, between China and South Korea 
				Korea, South
			Eastern Asia, southern half of the Korean Peninsula bordering the Sea of Japan and the Yellow Sea 
				Kosovo
			Southeast Europe, between Serbia and Macedonia 
				Kuwait
			Middle East, bordering the Persian Gulf, between Iraq and Saudi Arabia 
				Kyrgyzstan
			Central Asia, west of China 
				Laos
			Southeastern Asia, northeast of Thailand, west of Vietnam 
				Latvia
			Eastern Europe, bordering the Baltic Sea, between Estonia and Lithuania 
				Lebanon
			Middle East, bordering the Mediterranean Sea, between Israel and Syria 
				Lesotho
			Southern Africa, an enclave of South Africa 
				Liberia
			Western Africa, bordering the North Atlantic Ocean, between Cote d'Ivoire and Sierra Leone 
				Libya
			Northern Africa, bordering the Mediterranean Sea, between Egypt and Tunisia 
				Liechtenstein
			Central Europe, between Austria and Switzerland 
				Lithuania
			Eastern Europe, bordering the Baltic Sea, between Latvia and Russia 
				Luxembourg
			Western Europe, between France and Germany 
				Macau
			Eastern Asia, bordering the South China Sea and China 
				Macedonia
			Southeastern Europe, north of Greece 
				Madagascar
			Southern Africa, island in the Indian Ocean, east of Mozambique 
				Malawi
			Southern Africa, east of Zambia 
				Malaysia
			Southeastern Asia, peninsula bordering Thailand and northern one-third of the island of Borneo, bordering Indonesia, Brunei, and the South China Sea, south of Vietnam 
				Maldives
			Southern Asia, group of atolls in the Indian Ocean, south-southwest of India 
				Mali
			Western Africa, southwest of Algeria 
				Malta
			Southern Europe, islands in the Mediterranean Sea, south of Sicily (Italy) 
				Marshall Islands
			Oceania, two archipelagic island chains of 29 atolls, each made up of many small islets, and five single islands in the North Pacific Ocean, about half way between Hawaii and Australia 
				Mauritania
			Northern Africa, bordering the North Atlantic Ocean, between Senegal and Western Sahara 
				Mauritius
			Southern Africa, island in the Indian Ocean, east of Madagascar 
				Mayotte
			Southern Indian Ocean, island in the Mozambique Channel, about half way between northern Madagascar and northern Mozambique 
				Mexico
			Middle America, bordering the Caribbean Sea and the Gulf of Mexico, between Belize and the US and bordering the North Pacific Ocean, between Guatemala and the US 
				Micronesia, Federated States of
			Oceania, island group in the North Pacific Ocean, about three-quarters of the way from Hawaii to Indonesia 
				Moldova
			Eastern Europe, northeast of Romania 
				Monaco
			Western Europe, bordering the Mediterranean Sea on the southern coast of France, near the border with Italy 
				Mongolia
			Northern Asia, between China and Russia 
				Montenegro
			Southeastern Europe, between the Adriatic Sea and Serbia 
				Montserrat
			Caribbean, island in the Caribbean Sea, southeast of Puerto Rico 
				Morocco
			Northern Africa, bordering the North Atlantic Ocean and the Mediterranean Sea, between Algeria and Western Sahara 
				Mozambique
			Southeastern Africa, bordering the Mozambique Channel, between South Africa and Tanzania 
				Namibia
			Southern Africa, bordering the South Atlantic Ocean, between Angola and South Africa 
				Nauru
			Oceania, island in the South Pacific Ocean, south of the Marshall Islands 
				Navassa Island
			Caribbean, island in the Caribbean Sea, 35 miles west of Tiburon Peninsula of Haiti 
				Nepal
			Southern Asia, between China and India 
				Netherlands
			Western Europe, bordering the North Sea, between Belgium and Germany 
				Netherlands Antilles
			Caribbean, two island groups in the Caribbean Sea - composed of five islands, Curacao and Bonaire located off the coast of Venezuela, and Sint Maarten, Saba, and Sint Eustatius lie east of the US Virgin Islands 
				New Caledonia
			Oceania, islands in the South Pacific Ocean, east of Australia 
				New Zealand
			Oceania, islands in the South Pacific Ocean, southeast of Australia 
				Nicaragua
			Central America, bordering both the Caribbean Sea and the North Pacific Ocean, between Costa Rica and Honduras 
				Niger
			Western Africa, southeast of Algeria 
				Nigeria
			Western Africa, bordering the Gulf of Guinea, between Benin and Cameroon 
				Niue
			Oceania, island in the South Pacific Ocean, east of Tonga 
				Norfolk Island
			Oceania, island in the South Pacific Ocean, east of Australia 
				Northern Mariana Islands
			Oceania, islands in the North Pacific Ocean, about three-quarters of the way from Hawaii to the Philippines 
				Norway
			Northern Europe, bordering the North Sea and the North Atlantic Ocean, west of Sweden 
				Oman
			Middle East, bordering the Arabian Sea, Gulf of Oman, and Persian Gulf, between Yemen and UAE 
				Pacific Ocean
			body of water between the Southern Ocean, Asia, Australia, and the Western Hemisphere 
				Pakistan
			Southern Asia, bordering the Arabian Sea, between India on the east and Iran and Afghanistan on the west and China in the north 
				Palau
			Oceania, group of islands in the North Pacific Ocean, southeast of the Philippines 
				Panama
			Central America, bordering both the Caribbean Sea and the North Pacific Ocean, between Colombia and Costa Rica 
				Papua New Guinea
			Oceania, group of islands including the eastern half of the island of New Guinea between the Coral Sea and the South Pacific Ocean, east of Indonesia 
				Paracel Islands
			Southeastern Asia, group of small islands and reefs in the South China Sea, about one-third of the way from central Vietnam to the northern Philippines 
				Paraguay
			Central South America, northeast of Argentina 
				Peru
			Western South America, bordering the South Pacific Ocean, between Chile and Ecuador 
				Philippines
			Southeastern Asia, archipelago between the Philippine Sea and the South China Sea, east of Vietnam 
				Pitcairn Islands
			Oceania, islands in the South Pacific Ocean, about midway between Peru and New Zealand 
				Poland
			Central Europe, east of Germany 
				Portugal
			Southwestern Europe, bordering the North Atlantic Ocean, west of Spain 
				Puerto Rico
			Caribbean, island between the Caribbean Sea and the North Atlantic Ocean, east of the Dominican Republic 
				Qatar
			Middle East, peninsula bordering the Persian Gulf and Saudi Arabia 
				Romania
			Southeastern Europe, bordering the Black Sea, between Bulgaria and Ukraine 
				Russia
			Northern Asia (the area west of the Urals is considered part of Europe), bordering the Arctic Ocean, between Europe and the North Pacific Ocean 
				Rwanda
			Central Africa, east of Democratic Republic of the Congo 
				Saint Barthelemy
			located approximately 125 miles northwest of Guadeloupe 
				Saint Helena
			islands in the South Atlantic Ocean, about midway between South America and Africa; Ascension Island lies 700 nm northwest of Saint Helena; Tristan da Cunha lies 2300 nm southwest of Saint Helena 
				Saint Kitts and Nevis
			Caribbean, islands in the Caribbean Sea, about one-third of the way from Puerto Rico to Trinidad and Tobago 
				Saint Lucia
			Caribbean, island between the Caribbean Sea and North Atlantic Ocean, north of Trinidad and Tobago 
				Saint Martin
			island 300 km southeast of Puerto Rico 
				Saint Pierre and Miquelon
			Northern North America, islands in the North Atlantic Ocean, south of Newfoundland (Canada) 
				Saint Vincent and the Grenadines
			Caribbean, islands between the Caribbean Sea and North Atlantic Ocean, north of Trinidad and Tobago 
				Samoa
			Oceania, group of islands in the South Pacific Ocean, about half way between Hawaii and New Zealand 
				San Marino
			Southern Europe, an enclave in central Italy 
				Sao Tome and Principe
			Western Africa, islands in the Gulf of Guinea, straddling the Equator, west of Gabon 
				Saudi Arabia
			Middle East, bordering the Persian Gulf and the Red Sea, north of Yemen 
				Senegal
			Western Africa, bordering the North Atlantic Ocean, between Guinea-Bissau and Mauritania 
				Serbia
			Southeastern Europe, between Macedonia and Hungary 
				Seychelles
			archipelago in the Indian Ocean, northeast of Madagascar 
				Sierra Leone
			Western Africa, bordering the North Atlantic Ocean, between Guinea and Liberia 
				Singapore
			Southeastern Asia, islands between Malaysia and Indonesia 
				Slovakia
			Central Europe, south of Poland 
				Slovenia
			Central Europe, eastern Alps bordering the Adriatic Sea, between Austria and Croatia 
				Solomon Islands
			Oceania, group of islands in the South Pacific Ocean, east of Papua New Guinea 
				Somalia
			Eastern Africa, bordering the Gulf of Aden and the Indian Ocean, east of Ethiopia 
				South Africa
			Southern Africa, at the southern tip of the continent of Africa 
				South Georgia and the South Sandwich Islands
			Southern South America, islands in the South Atlantic Ocean, east of the tip of South America 
				Southern Ocean
			body of water between 60 degrees south latitude and Antarctica 
				Spain
			Southwestern Europe, bordering the Bay of Biscay, Mediterranean Sea, North Atlantic Ocean, and Pyrenees Mountains, southwest of France 
				Spratly Islands
			Southeastern Asia, group of reefs and islands in the South China Sea, about two-thirds of the way from southern Vietnam to the southern Philippines 
				Sri Lanka
			Southern Asia, island in the Indian Ocean, south of India 
				Sudan
			Northern Africa, bordering the Red Sea, between Egypt and Eritrea 
				Suriname
			Northern South America, bordering the North Atlantic Ocean, between French Guiana and Guyana 
				Svalbard
			Northern Europe, islands between the Arctic Ocean, Barents Sea, Greenland Sea, and Norwegian Sea, north of Norway 
				Swaziland
			Southern Africa, between Mozambique and South Africa 
				Sweden
			Northern Europe, bordering the Baltic Sea, Gulf of Bothnia, Kattegat, and Skagerrak, between Finland and Norway 
				Switzerland
			Central Europe, east of France, north of Italy 
				Syria
			Middle East, bordering the Mediterranean Sea, between Lebanon and Turkey 
				Taiwan
			Eastern Asia, islands bordering the East China Sea, Philippine Sea, South China Sea, and Taiwan Strait, north of the Philippines, off the southeastern coast of China 
				Tajikistan
			Central Asia, west of China 
				Tanzania
			Eastern Africa, bordering the Indian Ocean, between Kenya and Mozambique 
				Thailand
			Southeastern Asia, bordering the Andaman Sea and the Gulf of Thailand, southeast of Burma 
				Timor-Leste
			Southeastern Asia, northwest of Australia in the Lesser Sunda Islands at the eastern end of the Indonesian archipelago; note - Timor-Leste includes the eastern half of the island of Timor, the Oecussi (Ambeno) region on the northwest portion of the island of Timor, and the islands of Pulau Atauro and Pulau Jaco 
				Togo
			Western Africa, bordering the Bight of Benin, between Benin and Ghana 
				Tokelau
			Oceania, group of three atolls in the South Pacific Ocean, about one-half of the way from Hawaii to New Zealand 
				Tonga
			Oceania, archipelago in the South Pacific Ocean, about two-thirds of the way from Hawaii to New Zealand 
				Trinidad and Tobago
			Caribbean, islands between the Caribbean Sea and the North Atlantic Ocean, northeast of Venezuela 
				Tunisia
			Northern Africa, bordering the Mediterranean Sea, between Algeria and Libya 
				Turkey
			Southeastern Europe and Southwestern Asia (that portion of Turkey west of the Bosporus is geographically part of Europe), bordering the Black Sea, between Bulgaria and Georgia, and bordering the Aegean Sea and the Mediterranean Sea, between Greece and Syria 
				Turkmenistan
			Central Asia, bordering the Caspian Sea, between Iran and Kazakhstan 
				Turks and Caicos Islands
			Caribbean, two island groups in the North Atlantic Ocean, southeast of The Bahamas, north of Haiti 
				Tuvalu
			Oceania, island group consisting of nine coral atolls in the South Pacific Ocean, about one-half of the way from Hawaii to Australia 
				Uganda
			Eastern Africa, west of Kenya 
				Ukraine
			Eastern Europe, bordering the Black Sea, between Poland, Romania, and Moldova in the west and Russia in the east 
				United Arab Emirates
			Middle East, bordering the Gulf of Oman and the Persian Gulf, between Oman and Saudi Arabia 
				United Kingdom
			Western Europe, islands including the northern one-sixth of the island of Ireland between the North Atlantic Ocean and the North Sea, northwest of France 
				United States
			North America, bordering both the North Atlantic Ocean and the North Pacific Ocean, between Canada and Mexico 
				United States Pacific Island Wildlife Refuges
			Oceania 
				Baker Island: atoll in the North Pacific Ocean 1,830 nm (3,389 km) southwest of Honolulu, about half way between Hawaii and Australia 
				Howland Island: island in the North Pacific Ocean 1,815 nm (3,361 km) southwest of Honolulu, about half way between Hawaii and Australia 
				Jarvis Island: island in the South Pacific Ocean 1,305 nm (2,417 km) south of Honolulu, about half way between Hawaii and Cook Islands 
				Johnston Atoll: atoll in the North Pacific Ocean 717 nm (1,328 km) southwest of Honolulu, about one-third of the way from Hawaii to the Marshall Islands 
				Kingman Reef: reef in the North Pacific Ocean 930 nm (1,722 km) south of Honolulu, about half way between Hawaii and American Samoa 
				Midway Islands: atoll in the North Pacific Ocean 1,260 nm (2,334 km) northwest of Honolulu near the end of the Hawaiian Archipelago, about one-third of the way from Honolulu to Tokyo 
				Palmyra Atoll: atoll in the North Pacific Ocean 960 nm (1,778 km) south of Honolulu, about half way between Hawaii and American Samoa 
				Uruguay
			Southern South America, bordering the South Atlantic Ocean, between Argentina and Brazil 
				Uzbekistan
			Central Asia, north of Afghanistan 
				Vanuatu
			Oceania, group of islands in the South Pacific Ocean, about three-quarters of the way from Hawaii to Australia 
				Venezuela
			Northern South America, bordering the Caribbean Sea and the North Atlantic Ocean, between Colombia and Guyana 
				Vietnam
			Southeastern Asia, bordering the Gulf of Thailand, Gulf of Tonkin, and South China Sea, alongside China, Laos, and Cambodia 
				Virgin Islands
			Caribbean, islands between the Caribbean Sea and the North Atlantic Ocean, east of Puerto Rico 
				Wake Island
			Oceania, atoll in the North Pacific Ocean, about two-thirds of the way from Hawaii to the Northern Mariana Islands 
				Wallis and Futuna
			Oceania, islands in the South Pacific Ocean, about two-thirds of the way from Hawaii to New Zealand 
				West Bank
			Middle East, west of Jordan 
				Western Sahara
			Northern Africa, bordering the North Atlantic Ocean, between Mauritania and Morocco 
				Yemen
			Middle East, bordering the Arabian Sea, Gulf of Aden, and Red Sea, between Oman and Saudi Arabia 
				Zambia
			Southern Africa, east of Angola 
				Zimbabwe
			Southern Africa, between South Africa and Zambia  		
				This page was last updated on 19 March 2009
&nbsp; 
CIA - The World Factbook -- Field Listing - Major infectious diseases
&nbsp; 
				    &nbsp; 
                    Field Listing - Major infectious diseases
         Home 
          &nbsp;Reference Maps 
          &nbsp;Appendixes 
			Country
			Major infectious diseases 	
				Afghanistan
				degree of risk: high 
				food or waterborne diseases: bacterial and protozoal diarrhea, hepatitis A, and typhoid fever 
				vectorborne disease: malaria 
				animal contact disease: rabies 
				note: highly pathogenic H5N1 avian influenza has been identified in this country; it poses a negligible risk with extremely rare cases possible among US citizens who have close contact with birds (2008) 
				Angola
				degree of risk: very high 
				food or waterborne diseases: bacterial and protozoal diarrhea, hepatitis A, typhoid fever 
				vectorborne diseases: malaria, African trypanosomiasis (sleeping sickness) 
				water contact disease: schistosomiasis (2008) 
				Argentina
				degree of risk: intermediate 
				food or waterborne diseases: bacterial diarrhea, hepatitis A 
				water contact disease: leptospirosis (2008) 
				Bangladesh
				degree of risk: high 
				food or waterborne diseases: bacterial and protozoal diarrhea, hepatitis A and E, and typhoid fever 
				vectorborne diseases: dengue fever and malaria are high risks in some locations 
				water contact disease: leptospirosis 
				animal contact disease: rabies 
				note: highly pathogenic H5N1 avian influenza has been identified in this country; it poses a negligible risk with extremely rare cases possible among US citizens who have close contact with birds (2008) 
				Belize
				degree of risk: intermediate 
				food or waterborne diseases: bacterial diarrhea, hepatitis A, and typhoid fever 
				vectorborne diseases: dengue fever and malaria 
				water contact disease: leptospirosis (2008) 
				Benin
				degree of risk: very high 
				food or waterborne diseases: bacterial and protozoal diarrhea, hepatitis A, and typhoid fever 
				vectorborne diseases: malaria and yellow fever 
				respiratory disease: meningococcal meningitis (2008) 
				Bhutan
				degree of risk: intermediate 
				food or waterborne diseases: bacterial and protozoal diarrhea, hepatitis A, and typhoid fever 
				vectorborne diseases: malaria 
				water contact disease: leptospirosis (2008) 
				Bolivia
				degree of risk: high 
				food or waterborne diseases: bacterial diarrhea, hepatitis A, and typhoid fever 
				vectorborne diseases: dengue fever, malaria, and yellow fever 
				water contact disease: leptospirosis (2008) 
				Botswana
				degree of risk: high 
				food or waterborne diseases: bacterial diarrhea, hepatitis A, and typhoid fever 
				vectorborne disease: malaria (2008) 
				Burkina Faso
				degree of risk: very high 
				food or waterborne diseases: bacterial and protozoal diarrhea, hepatitis A, and typhoid fever 
				vectorborne disease: malaria 
				water contact disease: schistosomiasis 
				respiratory disease: meningococcal meningitis 
				note: highly pathogenic H5N1 avian influenza has been identified in this country; it poses a negligible risk with extremely rare cases possible among US citizens who have close contact with birds (2008) 
				Burma
				degree of risk: very high 
				food or waterborne diseases: bacterial and protozoal diarrhea, hepatitis A, and typhoid fever 
				vectorborne diseases: dengue fever and malaria 
				water contact disease: leptospirosis 
				animal contact disease: rabies 
				note: highly pathogenic H5N1 avian influenza has been identified in this country; it poses a negligible risk with extremely rare cases possible among US citizens who have close contact with birds (2008) 
				Burundi
				degree of risk: very high 
				food or waterborne diseases: bacterial and protozoal diarrhea, hepatitis A, and typhoid fever 
				vectorborne disease: malaria (2008) 
				Cambodia
				degree of risk: very high 
				food or waterborne diseases: bacterial and protozoal diarrhea, hepatitis A, and typhoid fever 
				vectorborne diseases: dengue fever, Japanese encephalitis, and malaria 
				note: highly pathogenic H5N1 avian influenza has been identified in this country; it poses a negligible risk with extremely rare cases possible among US citizens who have close contact with birds (2008) 
				Cameroon
				degree of risk: very high 
				food or waterborne diseases: bacterial and protozoal diarrhea, hepatitis A and E, and typhoid fever 
				vectorborne diseases: malaria and yellow fever 
				water contact disease: schistosomiasis 
				respiratory disease: meningococcal meningitis 
				animal contact disease: rabies (2008) 
				Central African Republic
				degree of risk: very high 
				food or waterborne diseases: bacterial and protozoal diarrhea, hepatitis A, and typhoid fever 
				vectorborne disease: malaria 
				respiratory disease: meningococcal meningitis (2008) 
				Chad
				degree of risk: very high 
				food or waterborne diseases: bacterial and protozoal diarrhea, hepatitis A, and typhoid fever 
				vectorborne disease: malaria 
				water contact disease: schistosomiasis 
				respiratory disease: meningococcal meningitis (2008) 
				China
				degree of risk: intermediate 
				food or waterborne diseases: bacterial diarrhea, hepatitis A, and typhoid fever 
				vectorborne diseases: Crimean Congo hemorrhagic fever, Japanese encephalitis, and malaria 
				water contact disease: leptospirosis 
				animal contact disease: rabies 
				note: highly pathogenic H5N1 avian influenza has been identified in this country; it poses a negligible risk with extremely rare cases possible among US citizens who have close contact with birds
				Colombia
				degree of risk: high 
				food or waterborne diseases: bacterial diarrhea, hepatitis A 
				vectorborne diseases: dengue fever, malaria, and yellow fever 
				water contact disease: leptospirosis (2008) 
				Congo, Democratic Republic of the
				degree of risk: very high 
				food or waterborne diseases: bacterial and protozoal diarrhea, hepatitis A, and typhoid fever 
				vectorborne diseases: malaria, plague, and African trypanosomiasis (sleeping sickness) 
				water contact disease: schistosomiasis 
				animal contact disease: rabies (2008) 
				Congo, Republic of the
				degree of risk: very high 
				food or waterborne diseases: bacterial and protozoal diarrhea, hepatitis A, and typhoid fever 
				vectorborne disease: malaria and African trypanosomiasis (sleeping sickness) 
				animal contact disease: rabies (2008) 
				Costa Rica
				degree of risk: intermediate 
				food or waterborne diseases: bacterial diarrhea and hepatitis A 
				vectorborne diseases: dengue fever (2008) 
				Cote d'Ivoire
				degree of risk: very high 
				food or waterborne diseases: bacterial diarrhea, hepatitis A, and typhoid fever 
				vectorborne diseases: malaria and yellow fever 
				water contact: schistosomiasis 
				animal contact disease: rabies 
				note: highly pathogenic H5N1 avian influenza has been identified in this country; it poses a negligible risk with extremely rare cases possible among US citizens who have close contact with birds (2008) 
				Croatia
				degree of risk: intermediate 
				food or waterborne diseases: bacterial diarrhea and hepatitis A 
				vectorborne diseases: tickborne encephalitis 
				note: highly pathogenic H5N1 avian influenza has been identified in this country; it poses a negligible risk with extremely rare cases possible among US citizens who have close contact with birds
				Cuba
				degree of risk: intermediate 
				food or waterborne diseases: bacterial diarrhea and hepatitis A 
				vectorborne diseases: dengue fever (2008) 
				Djibouti
				degree of risk: high 
				food or waterborne diseases: bacterial and protozoal diarrhea, hepatitis A and E, and typhoid fever 
				vectorborne disease: malaria 
				note: highly pathogenic H5N1 avian influenza has been identified in this country; it poses a negligible risk with extremely rare cases possible among US citizens who have close contact with birds (2008) 
				Dominican Republic
				degree of risk: high 
				food or waterborne diseases: bacterial diarrhea, hepatitis A, and typhoid fever 
				vectorborne diseases: dengue fever and malaria 
				water contact disease: leptospirosis (2008) 
				Ecuador
				degree of risk: high 
				food or waterborne diseases: bacterial diarrhea, hepatitis A, and typhoid fever 
				vectorborne diseases: dengue fever, malaria, and yellow fever 
				water contact disease: leptospirosis (2008) 
				Egypt
				degree of risk: intermediate 
				food or waterborne diseases: bacterial diarrhea, hepatitis A, and typhoid fever 
				water contact disease: schistosomiasis 
				note: highly pathogenic H5N1 avian influenza has been identified in this country; it poses a negligible risk with extremely rare cases possible among US citizens who have close contact with birds
				El Salvador
				degree of risk: high 
				food or waterborne diseases: bacterial diarrhea, hepatitis A, and typhoid fever 
				vectorborne diseases: dengue fever 
				water contact disease: leptospirosis (2008) 
				Equatorial Guinea
				degree of risk: very high 
				food or waterborne diseases: bacterial and protozoal diarrhea, hepatitis A, and typhoid fever 
				vectorborne disease: malaria (2008) 
				Eritrea
				degree of risk: high 
				food or waterborne diseases: bacterial diarrhea, hepatitis A, and typhoid fever 
				vectorborne disease: malaria (2008) 
				Estonia
				degree of risk: intermediate 
				food or waterborne diseases: bacterial diarrhea and hepatitis A 
				vectorborne disease: tickborne encephalitis (2008) 
				Ethiopia
				degree of risk: high 
				food or waterborne diseases: bacterial and protozoal diarrhea, hepatitis A and E, and typhoid fever 
				vectorborne diseases: malaria 
				respiratory disease: meningococcal meningitis 
				animal contact disease: rabies 
				water contact disease: schistosomiasis (2008) 
				Gabon
				degree of risk: very high 
				food or waterborne diseases: bacterial diarrhea, hepatitis A, and typhoid fever 
				vectorborne disease: malaria (2008) 
				Gambia, The
				degree of risk: very high 
				food or waterborne diseases: bacterial and protozoal diarrhea, hepatitis A, and typhoid fever 
				vectorborne diseases: dengue fever, malaria, Crimean-Congo hemorrhagic fever, and yellow fever 
				water contact disease: schistosomiasis 
				respiratory disease: meningococcal meningitis (2008) 
				Ghana
				degree of risk: very high 
				food or waterborne diseases: bacterial and protozoal diarrhea, hepatitis A, and typhoid fever 
				vectorborne diseases: malaria and yellow fever 
				water contact disease: schistosomiasis 
				respiratory disease: meningococcal meningitis 
				note: highly pathogenic H5N1 avian influenza has been identified in this country; it poses a negligible risk with extremely rare cases possible among US citizens who have close contact with birds
				Guatemala
				degree of risk: intermediate 
				food or waterborne diseases: bacterial diarrhea, hepatitis A, and typhoid fever 
				vectorborne disease: dengue fever and malaria (2008) 
				Guinea
				degree of risk: very high 
				food or waterborne diseases: bacterial and protozoal diarrhea, hepatitis A, and typhoid fever 
				vectorborne diseases: malaria and yellow fever 
				water contact disease: schistosomiasis 
				respiratory disease: meningococcal meningitis 
				aerosolized dust or soil contact disease: Lassa fever (2008) 
				Guinea-Bissau
				degree of risk: very high 
				food or waterborne diseases: bacterial and protozoal diarrhea, hepatitis A, and typhoid fever 
				vectorborne diseases: malaria and yellow fever 
				water contact disease: schistosomiasis 
				respiratory disease: meningococcal meningitis (2008) 
				Guyana
				degree of risk: high 
				food or waterborne diseases: bacterial and protozoal diarrhea, hepatitis A, and typhoid fever 
				vectorborne diseases: dengue fever and malaria 
				water contact disease: leptospirosis (2008) 
				Haiti
				degree of risk: high 
				food or waterborne diseases: bacterial and protozoal diarrhea, hepatitis A and E, and typhoid fever 
				vectorborne diseases: dengue fever and malaria 
				water contact disease: leptospirosis (2008) 
				Honduras
				degree of risk: high 
				food or waterborne diseases: bacterial diarrhea, hepatitis A, and typhoid fever 
				vectorborne diseases: dengue fever and malaria 
				water contact disease: leptospirosis (2008) 
				Hungary
				degree of risk: intermediate 
				food or waterborne diseases: bacterial diarrhea and hepatitis A 
				vectorborne diseases: tickborne encephalitis (2008) 
				India
				degree of risk: high 
				food or waterborne diseases: bacterial diarrhea, hepatitis A and E, and typhoid fever 
				vectorborne diseases: chikungunya, dengue fever, Japanese encephalitis, and malaria 
				animal contact disease: rabies 
				note: highly pathogenic H5N1 avian influenza has been identified in this country; it poses a negligible risk with extremely rare cases possible among US citizens who have close contact with birds (2008) 
				Indonesia
				degree of risk: high 
				food or waterborne diseases: bacterial diarrhea, hepatitis A and E, and typhoid fever 
				vectorborne diseases: chikungunya, dengue fever, and malaria 
				note: highly pathogenic H5N1 avian influenza has been identified in this country; it poses a negligible risk with extremely rare cases possible among US citizens who have close contact with birds (2008) 
				Iran
				degree of risk: intermediate 
				food or waterborne diseases: bacterial diarrhea and hepatitis A 
				vectorborne diseases: Crimean Congo hemorrhagic fever and malaria 
				note: highly pathogenic H5N1 avian influenza has been identified in this country; it poses a negligible risk with extremely rare cases possible among US citizens who have close contact with birds
				Iraq
				degree of risk: intermediate 
				food or waterborne diseases: bacterial diarrhea, hepatitis A, and typhoid fever 
				note: highly pathogenic H5N1 avian influenza has been identified in this country; it poses a negligible risk with extremely rare cases possible among US citizens who have close contact with birds
				Kenya
				degree of risk: high 
				food or waterborne diseases: bacterial and protozoal diarrhea, hepatitis A, and typhoid fever 
				vectorborne disease: malaria 
				water contact disease: schistosomiasis (2008) 
				Laos
				degree of risk: very high 
				food or waterborne diseases: bacterial and protozoal diarrhea, hepatitis A, and typhoid fever 
				vectorborne diseases: dengue fever, Japanese encephalitis, and malaria 
				note: highly pathogenic H5N1 avian influenza has been identified in this country; it poses a negligible risk with extremely rare cases possible among US citizens who have close contact with birds (2008)
				Latvia
				degree of risk: intermediate 
				food or waterborne diseases: bacterial diarrhea and hepatitis A 
				vectorborne diseases: tickborne encephalitis (2008) 
				Liberia
				degree of risk: very high 
				food or waterborne diseases: bacterial and protozoal diarrhea, hepatitis A, and typhoid fever 
				vectorborne diseases: malaria and yellow fever 
				water contact disease: schistosomiasis 
				aerosolized dust or soil contact disease: Lassa fever 
				animal contact disease: rabies (2008) 
				Lithuania
				degree of risk: intermediate 
				food or waterborne diseases: bacterial diarrhea and hepatitis A 
				vectorborne diseases: tickborne encephalitis (2008) 
				Madagascar
				degree of risk: very high 
				food or waterborne diseases: bacterial and protozoal diarrhea, hepatitis A, and typhoid fever 
				vectorborne diseases: chikungunya, malaria, and plague 
				water contact disease: schistosomiasis (2008) 
				Malawi
				degree of risk: very high 
				food or waterborne diseases: bacterial and protozoal diarrhea, hepatitis A, and typhoid fever 
				vectorborne diseases: malaria and plague 
				water contact disease: schistosomiasis (2008) 
				Malaysia
				degree of risk: high 
				food or waterborne diseases: bacterial diarrhea, hepatitis A, and typhoid fever 
				vectorborne diseases: dengue fever and malaria 
				note: highly pathogenic H5N1 avian influenza has been identified in this country; it poses a negligible risk with extremely rare cases possible among US citizens who have close contact with birds (2008)
				Mali
				degree of risk: very high 
				food or waterborne diseases: bacterial and protozoal diarrhea, hepatitis A, and typhoid fever 
				vectorborne disease: malaria 
				water contact disease: schistosomiasis 
				respiratory disease: meningococcal meningitis (2008) 
				Mauritania
				degree of risk: high 
				food or waterborne diseases: bacterial and protozoal diarrhea, hepatitis A, and typhoid fever 
				vectorborne diseases: malaria and Rift Valley fever (2008) 
				Mexico
				degree of risk: intermediate 
				food or waterborne diseases: bacterial diarrhea, hepatitis A, and typhoid fever 
				vectorborne disease: dengue fever 
				water contact disease: leptospirosis (2008) 
				Montenegro
				degree of risk: intermediate 
				food or waterborne diseases: bacterial diarrhea and hepatitis A 
				vectorborne disease: Crimean Congo hemorrhagic fever (2008) 
				Mozambique
				degree of risk: very high 
				food or waterborne diseases: bacterial and protozoal diarrhea, hepatitis A, and typhoid fever 
				vectorborne diseases: malaria and plague 
				water contact disease: schistosomiasis (2008) 
				Namibia
				degree of risk: high 
				food or waterborne diseases: bacterial diarrhea, hepatitis A, and typhoid fever 
				vectorborne disease: malaria 
				water contact disease: schistosomiasis (2008) 
				Nepal
				degree of risk: intermediate 
				food or waterborne diseases: bacterial diarrhea, hepatitis A, and typhoid fever 
				vectorborne disease: Japanese encephalitis and malaria (2008) 
				Nicaragua
				degree of risk: intermediate 
				food or waterborne diseases: bacterial diarrhea, hepatitis A, and typhoid fever 
				vectorborne disease: dengue fever and malaria 
				water contact disease: leptospirosis (2008) 
				Niger
				degree of risk: very high 
				food or waterborne diseases: bacterial and protozoal diarrhea, hepatitis A, and typhoid fever 
				vectorborne disease: malaria 
				respiratory disease: meningococcal meningitis 
				note: highly pathogenic H5N1 avian influenza has been identified in this country; it poses a negligible risk with extremely rare cases possible among US citizens who have close contact with birds (2008) 
				Nigeria
				degree of risk: very high 
				food or waterborne diseases: bacterial and protozoal diarrhea, hepatitis A, and typhoid fever 
				vectorborne disease: malaria and yellow fever 
				respiratory disease: meningococcal meningitis 
				aerosolized dust or soil contact disease: one of the most highly endemic areas for Lassa fever 
				water contact disease: leptospirosis and shistosomiasis 
				note: highly pathogenic H5N1 avian influenza has been identified in this country; it poses a negligible risk with extremely rare cases possible among US citizens who have close contact with birds (2008) 
				Pakistan
				degree of risk: high 
				food or waterborne diseases: bacterial diarrhea, hepatitis A and E, and typhoid fever 
				vectorborne diseases: dengue fever and malaria 
				animal contact disease: rabies 
				note: highly pathogenic H5N1 avian influenza has been identified in this country; it poses a negligible risk with extremely rare cases possible among US citizens who have close contact with birds (2008) 
				Panama
				degree of risk: intermediate 
				food or waterborne diseases: bacterial diarrhea and hepatitis A 
				vectorborne disease: dengue fever and malaria 
				water contact disease: leptospirosis (2008) 
				Papua New Guinea
				degree of risk: very high 
				food or waterborne diseases: bacterial diarrhea, hepatitis A, and typhoid fever 
				vectorborne diseases: dengue fever and malaria (2008) 
				Paraguay
				degree of risk: intermediate 
				food or waterborne diseases: bacterial diarrhea, hepatitis A, and typhoid fever 
				vectorborne disease: dengue fever and malaria (2008) 
				Peru
				degree of risk: very high 
				food or waterborne diseases: bacterial, hepatitis A, and typhoid fever 
				vectorborne disease: dengue fever, malaria, Oroya fever, and yellow fever 
				water contact disease: leptospirosis (2008) 
				Philippines
				degree of risk: high 
				food or waterborne diseases: bacterial diarrhea, hepatitis A, and typhoid fever 
				vectorborne diseases: dengue fever and malaria (2008) 
				Poland
				degree of risk: intermediate 
				food or waterborne diseases: bacterial diarrhea 
				vectorborne disease: tickborne encephalitis 
				note: highly pathogenic H5N1 avian influenza has been identified in this country; it poses a negligible risk with extremely rare cases possible among US citizens who have close contact with birds 
				Russia
				degree of risk: intermediate 
				food or waterborne diseases: bacterial diarrhea and hepatitis A 
				vectorborne disease: Crimean Congo hemorrhagic fever and tickborne encephalitis 
				note: highly pathogenic H5N1 avian influenza has been identified in this country; it poses a negligible risk with extremely rare cases possible among US citizens who have close contact with birds
				Rwanda
				degree of risk: very high 
				food or waterborne diseases: bacterial diarrhea, hepatitis A, and typhoid fever 
				vectorborne disease: malaria (2008) 
				Sao Tome and Principe
				degree of risk: high 
				food or waterborne diseases: bacterial diarrhea, hepatitis A, and typhoid fever 
				vectorborne disease: malaria (2008) 
				Senegal
				degree of risk: very high 
				food or waterborne diseases: bacterial and protozoal diarrhea, hepatitis A, and typhoid fever 
				vectorborne diseases: Crimean-Congo hemorrhagic fever, dengue fever, malaria, Rift Valley fever, and yellow fever 
				water contact disease: schistosomiasis 
				respiratory disease: meningococcal meningitis (2008) 
				Serbia
				degree of risk: intermediate 
				food or waterborne diseases: bacterial diarrhea and hepatitis A 
				vectorborne disease: Crimean Congo hemorrhagic fever 
				note: highly pathogenic H5N1 avian influenza has been identified in this country; it poses a negligible risk with extremely rare cases possible among US citizens who have close contact with birds
				Sierra Leone
				degree of risk: very high 
				food or waterborne diseases: bacterial and protozoal diarrhea, hepatitis A, and typhoid fever 
				vectorborne diseases: malaria and yellow fever 
				water contact disease: schistosomiasis 
				aerosolized dust or soil contact disease: Lassa fever (2008) 
				Somalia
				degree of risk: high 
				food or waterborne diseases: bacterial and protozoal diarrhea, hepatitis A and E, and typhoid fever 
				vectorborne diseases: dengue fever, malaria, and Rift Valley fever 
				water contact disease: schistosomiasis 
				animal contact disease: rabies (2008) 
				South Africa
				degree of risk: intermediate 
				food or waterborne diseases: bacterial diarrhea, hepatitis A, and typhoid fever 
				vectorborne disease: Crimean Congo hemorrhagic fever and malaria 
				water contact disease: schistosomiasis (2008) 
				Sri Lanka
				degree of risk: high 
				food or waterborne diseases: bacterial diarrhea and hepatitis A 
				vectorborne disease: dengue fever and malaria 
				water contact disease: leptospirosis (2008) 
				Sudan
				degree of risk: very high 
				food or waterborne diseases: bacterial and protozoal diarrhea, hepatitis A, and typhoid fever 
				vectorborne diseases: malaria, dengue fever, African trypanosomiasis (sleeping sickness) 
				water contact disease: schistosomiasis 
				respiratory disease: meningococcal meningitis 
				note: highly pathogenic H5N1 avian influenza has been identified in this country; it poses a negligible risk with extremely rare cases possible among US citizens who have close contact with birds (2008) 
				Suriname
				degree of risk: high 
				food or waterborne diseases: bacterial and protozoal diarrhea, hepatitis A, and typhoid fever 
				vectorborne disease: dengue fever, Mayaro virus, and malaria 
				water contact disease: leptospirosis (2008) 
				Swaziland
				degree of risk: intermediate 
				food or waterborne diseases: bacterial diarrhea, hepatitis A, and typhoid fever 
				vectorborne disease: malaria 
				water contact disease: schistosomiasis (2008) 
				Tajikistan
				degree of risk: high 
				food or waterborne diseases: bacterial diarrhea, hepatitis A, and typhoid fever 
				vectorborne disease: malaria (2008) 
				Tanzania
				degree of risk: very high 
				food or waterborne diseases: bacterial diarrhea, hepatitis A, and typhoid fever 
				vectorborne diseases: malaria and plague 
				water contact disease: schistosomiasis (2008) 
				Thailand
				degree of risk: high 
				food or waterborne diseases: bacterial diarrhea and hepatitis A 
				vectorborne diseases: dengue fever, Japanese encephalitis, and malaria 
				animal contact disease: rabies 
				water contact disease: leptospirosis 
				note: highly pathogenic H5N1 avian influenza has been identified in this country; it poses a negligible risk with extremely rare cases possible among US citizens who have close contact with birds (2008) 
				Timor-Leste
				degree of risk: high 
				food or waterborne diseases: bacterial and protozoal diarrhea, hepatitis A, and typhoid fever 
				vectorborne diseases: chikungunya, dengue fever and malaria (2008) 
				Togo
				degree of risk: very high 
				food or waterborne diseases: bacterial and protozoal diarrhea, hepatitis A, and typhoid fever 
				vectorborne diseases: malaria and yellow fever 
				water contact disease: schistosomiasis 
				respiratory disease: meningococcal meningitis 
				note: highly pathogenic H5N1 avian influenza has been identified in this country; it poses a negligible risk with extremely rare cases possible among US citizens who have close contact with birds 
				Uganda
				degree of risk: very high 
				food or waterborne diseases: bacterial diarrhea, hepatitis A, and typhoid fever 
				vectorborne diseases: chikungunya, malaria, plague, and African trypanosomiasis (sleeping sickness) 
				water contact disease: schistosomiasis (2008) 
				Venezuela
				degree of risk: high 
				food or waterborne diseases: bacterial diarrhea and hepatitis A 
				vectorborne disease: dengue fever, malaria, and Venezuelan equine encephalitis (2008) 
				Vietnam
				degree of risk: high 
				food or waterborne diseases: bacterial diarrhea, hepatitis A, and typhoid fever 
				vectorborne diseases: dengue fever, malaria, Japanese encephalitis, and plague 
				water contact disease: leptospirosis 
				note: highly pathogenic H5N1 avian influenza has been identified in this country; it poses a negligible risk with extremely rare cases possible among US citizens who have close contact with birds (2008) 
				Yemen
				degree of risk: high 
				food or waterborne diseases: bacterial and protozoal diarrhea, hepatitis A, and typhoid fever 
				vectorborne diseases: dengue fever and malaria 
				water contact disease: schistosomiasis (2008) 
				Zambia
				degree of risk: very high 
				food or waterborne diseases: bacterial and protozoal diarrhea, hepatitis A, and typhoid fever 
				vectorborne diseases: malaria and plague are high risks in some locations 
				water contact disease: schistosomiasis 
				animal contact disease: rabies (2008) 
				Zimbabwe
				degree of risk: high 
				food or waterborne diseases: bacterial and protozoal diarrhea, hepatitis A, and typhoid fever 
				vectorborne disease: malaria 
				water contact disease: schistosomiasis 
				animal contact disease: rabies (2008)  		
				This page was last updated on 19 March 2009
&nbsp; 
CIA - The World Factbook -- Field Listing - Manpower fit for military service
&nbsp; 
				    &nbsp; 
                    Field Listing - Manpower fit for military service
         Home 
          &nbsp;Reference Maps 
          &nbsp;Appendixes 
			Country
			Manpower fit for military service 	
				Afghanistan
				males age 16-49: 4,371,193 
				females age 16-49: 4,072,945 (2009 est.) 
				Albania
				males age 16-49: 800,665 
				females age 16-49: 768,536 (2009 est.) 
				Algeria
				males age 16-49: 8,317,473 
				females age 16-49: 8,367,005 (2009 est.) 
				American Samoa
				males age 16-49: 13,875 
				females age 16-49: 13,517 (2009 est.) 
				Andorra
				males age 16-49: 18,617 
				females age 16-49: 17,613 (2009 est.) 
				Angola
				males age 16-49: 1,467,833 
				females age 16-49: 1,411,468 (2009 est.) 
				Anguilla
				males age 16-49: 2,955 
				females age 16-49: 3,308 (2009 est.) 
				Antigua and Barbuda
				males age 16-49: 17,271 
				females age 16-49: 19,586 (2009 est.) 
				Argentina
				males age 16-49: 8,264,853 
				females age 16-49: 8,268,498 (2009 est.) 
				Armenia
				males age 16-49: 642,734 
				females age 16-49: 729,047 (2009 est.) 
				Aruba
				males age 16-49: 20,287 
				females age 16-49: 21,232 (2009 est.) 
				Australia
				males age 16-49: 4,341,591 
				females age 16-49: 4,179,659 (2009 est.) 
				Austria
				males age 16-49: 1,607,456 
				females age 16-49: 1,576,335 (2009 est.) 
				Azerbaijan
				males age 16-49: 1,727,464 
				females age 16-49: 1,944,260 (2009 est.) 
				Bahamas, The
				males age 16-49: 50,764 
				females age 16-49: 51,690 (2009 est.) 
				Bahrain
				males age 16-49: 171,004 
				females age 16-49: 144,555 (2009 est.) 
				Bangladesh
				males age 16-49: 24,946,041 
				females age 16-49: 31,409,069 (2009 est.) 
				Barbados
				males age 16-49: 58,596 
				females age 16-49: 58,866 (2009 est.) 
				Belarus
				males age 16-49: 1,720,049 
				females age 16-49: 2,069,898 (2009 est.) 
				Belgium
				males age 16-49: 1,962,409 
				females age 16-49: 1,905,178 (2009 est.) 
				Belize
				males age 16-49: 56,135 
				females age 16-49: 54,732 (2009 est.) 
				Benin
				males age 16-49: 1,279,053 
				females age 16-49: 1,292,438 (2009 est.) 
				Bermuda
				males age 16-49: 12,496 
				females age 16-49: 12,486 (2009 est.) 
				Bhutan
				males age 16-49: 150,210 
				females age 16-49: 135,991 (2009 est.) 
				Bolivia
				males age 16-49: 1,666,697 
				females age 16-49: 1,906,396 (2009 est.) 
				Bosnia and Herzegovina
				males age 16-49: 991,953 
				females age 16-49: 959,226 (2009 est.) 
				Botswana
				males age 16-49: 341,190 
				females age 16-49: 315,588 (2009 est.) 
				Brazil
				males age 16-49: 38,043,555 
				females age 16-49: 44,267,520 (2009 est.) 
				British Virgin Islands
				males age 16-49: 5,979 
				females age 16-49: 5,738 (2009 est.) 
				Brunei
				males age 16-49: 92,543 
				females age 16-49: 95,301 (2009 est.) 
				Bulgaria
				males age 16-49: 1,351,312 
				females age 16-49: 1,381,017 (2009 est.) 
				Burkina Faso
				males age 16-49: 2,197,557 
				females age 16-49: 2,191,978 (2009 est.) 
				Burma
				males age 16-49: 9,146,312 
				females age 16-49: 9,520,852 (2009 est.) 
				Burundi
				males age 16-49: 1,124,072 
				females age 16-49: 1,102,729 (2009 est.) 
				Cambodia
				males age 16-49: 2,673,383 
				females age 16-49: 2,763,256 (2009 est.) 
				Cameroon
				males age 16-49: 2,645,601 
				females age 16-49: 2,574,948 (2009 est.) 
				Canada
				males age 16-49: 6,647,513 
				females age 16-49: 6,413,748 (2009 est.) 
				Cape Verde
				males age 16-49: 84,967 
				females age 16-49: 90,154 (2009 est.) 
				Cayman Islands
				males age 16-49: 9,735 
				females age 16-49: 10,145 (2009 est.) 
				Central African Republic
				males age 16-49: 552,907 
				females age 16-49: 512,611 (2009 est.) 
				Chad
				males age 16-49: 1,103,006 
				females age 16-49: 1,315,620 (2009 est.) 
				Chile
				males age 16-49: 3,573,165 
				females age 16-49: 3,523,649 (2009 est.) 
				China
				males age 16-49: 314,459,083 
				females age 16-49: 296,763,134 (2009 est.) 
				Colombia
				males age 16-49: 8,212,944 
				females age 16-49: 10,045,435 (2009 est.) 
				Comoros
				males age 16-49: 125,747 
				females age 16-49: 135,707 (2009 est.) 
				Congo, Democratic Republic of the
				males age 16-49: 8,925,355 
				females age 16-49: 9,047,356 (2009 est.) 
				Congo, Republic of the
				males age 16-49: 538,202 
				females age 16-49: 527,649 (2009 est.) 
				Cook Islands
				males age 16-49: 2,334 
				females age 16-49: 2,286 (2009 est.) 
				Costa Rica
				males age 16-49: 971,224 
				females age 16-49: 936,978 (2009 est.) 
				Cote d'Ivoire
				males age 16-49: 3,122,106 
				females age 16-49: 2,936,391 (2009 est.) 
				Croatia
				males age 16-49: 770,798 
				females age 16-49: 849,957 (2009 est.) 
				Cuba
				males age 16-49: 2,532,495 
				females age 16-49: 2,468,631 (2009 est.) 
				Cyprus
				Greek Cypriot National Guard (GCNG): 
				males age 16-49: 165,615 165,615 
				females age 16-49: 159,362 159,362 (2009 est.) 
				Czech Republic
				males age 16-49: 2,095,038 
				females age 16-49: 2,011,531 (2009 est.) 
				Denmark
				males age 16-49: 1,013,223 
				females age 16-49: 998,837 (2009 est.) 
				Djibouti
				males age 16-49: 55,173 
				females age 16-49: 52,825 (2009 est.) 
				Dominica
				males age 16-49: 15,821 
				females age 16-49: 15,291 (2009 est.) 
				Dominican Republic
				males age 16-49: 2,056,774 
				females age 16-49: 1,921,836 (2009 est.) 
				Ecuador
				males age 16-49: 2,708,470 
				females age 16-49: 3,165,489 (2009 est.) 
				Egypt
				males age 16-49: 18,490,522 
				females age 16-49: 17,719,905 (2009 est.) 
				El Salvador
				males age 16-49: 1,201,290 
				females age 16-49: 1,547,278 (2009 est.) 
				Equatorial Guinea
				males age 16-49: 105,468 
				females age 16-49: 107,919 (2009 est.) 
				Eritrea
				males age 16-49: 834,018 
				females age 16-49: 887,495 (2009 est.) 
				Estonia
				males age 16-49: 216,483 
				females age 16-49: 260,408 (2009 est.) 
				Ethiopia
				males age 16-49: 11,078,847 
				females age 16-49: 12,017,073 (2009 est.) 
				Faroe Islands
				males age 16-49: 9,759 
				females age 16-49: 8,311 (2009 est.) 
				Fiji
				males age 16-49: 192,363 
				females age 16-49: 204,410 (2009 est.) 
				Finland
				males age 16-49: 962,479 
				females age 16-49: 920,297 (2009 est.) 
				France
				males age 16-49: 12,087,606 
				females age 16-49: 11,811,260 (2009 est.) 
				French Polynesia
				males age 16-49: 65,408 
				females age 16-49: 64,421 (2009 est.) 
				Gabon
				males age 16-49: 195,519 
				females age 16-49: 190,519 (2009 est.) 
				Gambia, The
				males age 16-49: 238,454 
				females age 16-49: 253,680 (2009 est.) 
				Gaza Strip
				males age 16-49: 312,003 
				females age 16-49: 297,380 (2009 est.) 
				Georgia
				males age 16-49: 908,282 
				females age 16-49: 959,290 (2009 est.) 
				Germany
				males age 16-49: 15,747,493 
				females age 16-49: 14,899,416 (2009 est.) 
				Ghana
				males age 16-49: 3,849,113 
				females age 16-49: 3,840,083 (2009 est.) 
				Gibraltar
				males age 16-49: 5,234 
				females age 16-49: 5,242 (2009 est.) 
				Greece
				males age 16-49: 2,067,878 
				females age 16-49: 2,050,289 (2009 est.) 
				Greenland
				males age 16-49: 10,809 
				females age 16-49: 11,437 (2009 est.) 
				Grenada
				males age 16-49: 20,483 
				females age 16-49: 20,923 (2009 est.) 
				Guam
				males age 16-49: 37,563 
				females age 16-49: 36,083 (2009 est.) 
				Guatemala
				males age 16-49: 2,401,297 
				females age 16-49: 2,725,572 (2009 est.) 
				Guernsey
				males age 16-49: 12,447 
				females age 16-49: 12,566 (2009 est.) 
				Guinea
				males age 16-49: 1,396,278 
				females age 16-49: 1,435,387 (2009 est.) 
				Guinea-Bissau
				males age 16-49: 194,110 
				females age 16-49: 200,660 (2009 est.) 
				Guyana
				males age 16-49: 150,307 
				females age 16-49: 144,622 (2009 est.) 
				Haiti
				males age 16-49: 1,518,840 
				females age 16-49: 1,530,043 (2009 est.) 
				Honduras
				males age 16-49: 1,397,938 
				females age 16-49: 1,402,398 (2009 est.) 
				Hong Kong
				males age 16-49: 1,421,406 
				females age 16-49: 1,543,443 (2009 est.) 
				Hungary
				males age 16-49: 1,887,755 
				females age 16-49: 1,934,019 (2009 est.) 
				Iceland
				males age 16-49: 62,576 
				females age 16-49: 61,159 (2009 est.) 
				India
				males age 16-49: 237,042,868 
				females age 16-49: 243,276,310 (2009 est.) 
				Indonesia
				males age 16-49: 52,997,922 
				females age 16-49: 52,503,046 (2009 est.) 
				Iran
				males age 16-49: 17,658,573 
				females age 16-49: 17,148,290 (2009 est.) 
				Iraq
				males age 16-49: 6,203,425 
				females age 16-49: 6,065,009 (2009 est.) 
				Ireland
				males age 16-49: 857,162 
				females age 16-49: 854,416 (2009 est.) 
				Isle of Man
				males age 16-49: 14,691 
				females age 16-49: 14,338 (2009 est.) 
				Israel
				males age 16-49: 1,474,966 
				females age 16-49: 1,404,712 (2009 est.) 
				Italy
				males age 16-49: 11,197,487 
				females age 16-49: 10,574,250 (2009 est.) 
				Jamaica
				males age 16-49: 573,520 
				females age 16-49: 586,426 (2009 est.) 
				Japan
				males age 16-49: 22,757,136 
				females age 16-49: 21,920,703 (2009 est.) 
				Jersey
				males age 16-49: 16,920 
				females age 16-49: 16,826 (2009 est.) 
				Jordan
				males age 16-49: 1,593,919 
				females age 16-49: 1,382,097 (2009 est.) 
				Kazakhstan
				males age 16-49: 2,888,931 
				females age 16-49: 3,550,014 (2009 est.) 
				Kenya
				males age 16-49: 5,935,480 
				females age 16-49: 5,662,755 (2009 est.) 
				Kiribati
				males age 16-49: 18,129 
				females age 16-49: 20,643 (2009 est.) 
				Korea, North
				males age 16-49: 4,104,964 
				females age 16-49: 4,492,374 (2009 est.) 
				Korea, South
				males age 16-49: 10,991,263 
				females age 16-49: 10,356,604 (2009 est.) 
				Kosovo
				males age 16-49: 428,685 
				females age 16-49: 388,848 (2009 est.) 
				Kuwait
				males age 16-49: 935,525 
				females age 16-49: 519,854 (2009 est.) 
				Kyrgyzstan
				males age 16-49: 1,083,777 
				females age 16-49: 1,229,406 (2009 est.) 
				Laos
				males age 16-49: 1,023,205 
				females age 16-49: 1,085,197 (2009 est.) 
				Latvia
				males age 16-49: 410,374 
				females age 16-49: 463,144 (2009 est.) 
				Lebanon
				males age 16-49: 948,765 
				females age 16-49: 954,663 (2009 est.) 
				Lesotho
				males age 16-49: 267,083 
				females age 16-49: 240,868 (2009 est.) 
				Liberia
				males age 16-49: 387,417 
				females age 16-49: 382,334 (2009 est.) 
				Libya
				males age 16-49: 1,466,578 
				females age 16-49: 1,409,684 (2009 est.) 
				Liechtenstein
				males age 16-49: 6,584 
				females age 16-49: 6,801 (2009 est.) 
				Lithuania
				males age 16-49: 677,689 
				females age 16-49: 743,468 (2009 est.) 
				Luxembourg
				males age 16-49: 95,840 
				females age 16-49: 94,641 (2009 est.) 
				Macau
				males age 16-49: 122,962 
				females age 16-49: 148,809 (2009 est.) 
				Macedonia
				males age 16-49: 444,247 
				females age 16-49: 427,556 (2009 est.) 
				Madagascar
				males age 16-49: 3,150,043 
				females age 16-49: 3,404,988 (2009 est.) 
				Malawi
				males age 16-49: 1,732,621 
				females age 16-49: 1,562,107 (2009 est.) 
				Malaysia
				males age 16-49: 5,493,946 
				females age 16-49: 5,409,524 (2009 est.) 
				Maldives
				males age 16-49: 138,746 
				females age 16-49: 82,247 (2009 est.) 
				Mali
				males age 16-49: 1,649,772 
				females age 16-49: 1,579,601 (2009 est.) 
				Malta
				males age 16-49: 80,186 
				females age 16-49: 76,426 (2009 est.) 
				Marshall Islands
				males age 16-49: 13,041 
				females age 16-49: 13,199 (2009 est.) 
				Mauritania
				males age 16-49: 450,289 
				females age 16-49: 544,598 (2009 est.) 
				Mauritius
				males age 16-49: 277,690 
				females age 16-49: 282,211 (2009 est.) 
				Mayotte
				males age 16-49: 35,849 
				females age 16-49: 34,456 (2009 est.) 
				Mexico
				males age 16-49: 22,541,654 
				females age 16-49: 25,149,027 (2009 est.) 
				Micronesia, Federated States of
				males age 16-49: 21,845 
				females age 16-49: 23,401 (2009 est.) 
				Moldova
				males age 16-49: 877,665 
				females age 16-49: 987,356 (2009 est.) 
				Monaco
				males age 16-49: 5,495 
				females age 16-49: 5,406 (2009 est.) 
				Mongolia
				males age 16-49: 706,774 
				females age 16-49: 740,550 (2009 est.) 
				Montenegro
				males age 16-49: 154,029 
				females age 16-49: 136,847 (2009 est.) 
				Montserrat
				males age 16-49: 1,126 
				females age 16-49: 1,226 (2009 est.) 
				Morocco
				males age 16-49: 7,779,589 
				females age 16-49: 7,881,024 (2009 est.) 
				Mozambique
				males age 16-49: 2,366,897 
				females age 16-49: 2,209,764 (2009 est.) 
				Namibia
				males age 16-49: 329,614 
				females age 16-49: 294,490 (2009 est.) 
				Nauru
				males age 16-49: 2,592 
				females age 16-49: 2,966 (2009 est.) 
				Nepal
				males age 16-49: 4,886,103 
				females age 16-49: 5,525,764 (2009 est.) 
				Netherlands
				males age 16-49: 3,224,790 
				females age 16-49: 3,143,096 (2009 est.) 
				Netherlands Antilles
				males age 16-49: 46,461 
				females age 16-49: 47,325 (2009 est.) 
				New Caledonia
				males age 16-49: 48,288 
				females age 16-49: 48,959 (2009 est.) 
				New Zealand
				males age 16-49: 837,553 
				females age 16-49: 825,981 (2009 est.) 
				Nicaragua
				males age 16-49: 1,277,878 
				females age 16-49: 1,339,413 (2009 est.) 
				Niger
				males age 16-49: 2,019,553 
				females age 16-49: 2,046,906 (2009 est.) 
				Nigeria
				males age 16-49: 19,763,535 
				females age 16-49: 18,850,650 (2009 est.) 
				Northern Mariana Islands
				males age 16-49: 19,209 
				females age 16-49: 33,074 (2009 est.) 
				Norway
				males age 16-49: 888,219 
				females age 16-49: 863,255 (2009 est.) 
				Oman
				males age 16-49: 675,454 
				females age 16-49: 563,890 (2009 est.) 
				Pakistan
				males age 16-49: 33,690,322 
				females age 16-49: 32,602,910 (2009 est.) 
				Palau
				males age 16-49: 5,177 
				females age 16-49: 3,936 (2009 est.) 
				Panama
				males age 16-49: 705,160 
				females age 16-49: 710,521 (2009 est.) 
				Papua New Guinea
				males age 16-49: 1,110,175 
				females age 16-49: 1,127,758 (2009 est.) 
				Paraguay
				males age 16-49: 1,363,746 
				females age 16-49: 1,390,799 (2009 est.) 
				Peru
				males age 16-49: 5,920,716 
				females age 16-49: 6,359,803 (2009 est.) 
				Philippines
				males age 16-49: 19,169,298 
				females age 16-49: 20,636,853 (2009 est.) 
				Poland
				males age 16-49: 7,898,892 
				females age 16-49: 7,888,035 (2009 est.) 
				Portugal
				males age 16-49: 2,103,558 
				females age 16-49: 2,049,032 (2009 est.) 
				Puerto Rico
				males age 16-49: 699,784 
				females age 16-49: 790,482 (2009 est.) 
				Qatar
				males age 16-49: 318,388 
				females age 16-49: 136,841 (2009 est.) 
				Romania
				males age 16-49: 4,542,720 
				females age 16-49: 4,604,484 (2009 est.) 
				Russia
				males age 16-49: 21,098,306 
				females age 16-49: 27,968,883 (2009 est.) 
				Rwanda
				males age 16-49: 1,452,768 
				females age 16-49: 1,456,207 (2009 est.) 
				Saint Barthelemy
				males age 16-49: 1,594 
				females age 16-49: 1,340 (2009 est.) 
				Saint Helena
				males age 16-49: 1,586 
				females age 16-49: 1,600 (2009 est.) 
				Saint Kitts and Nevis
				males age 16-49: 8,159 
				females age 16-49: 8,517 (2009 est.) 
				Saint Lucia
				males age 16-49: 32,094 
				females age 16-49: 36,110 (2009 est.) 
				Saint Martin
				males age 16-49: 6,336 
				females age 16-49: 6,925 (2009 est.) 
				Saint Pierre and Miquelon
				males age 16-49: 1,427 
				females age 16-49: 1,406 (2009 est.) 
				Saint Vincent and the Grenadines
				males age 16-49: 22,975 
				females age 16-49: 22,250 (2009 est.) 
				Samoa
				males age 16-49: 43,169 
				females age 16-49: 40,957 (2009 est.) 
				San Marino
				males age 16-49: 5,343 
				females age 16-49: 6,048 (2009 est.) 
				Sao Tome and Principe
				males age 16-49: 35,216 
				females age 16-49: 38,329 (2009 est.) 
				Saudi Arabia
				males age 16-49: 7,486,622 
				females age 16-49: 5,652,819 (2009 est.) 
				Senegal
				males age 16-49: 2,038,508 
				females age 16-49: 2,207,510 (2009 est.) 
				Serbia
				males age 16-49: 1,415,007 
				females age 16-49: 1,379,541 (2009 est.) 
				Seychelles
				males age 16-49: 19,702 
				females age 16-49: 19,780 (2009 est.) 
				Sierra Leone
				males age 16-49: 692,469 
				females age 16-49: 762,239 (2009 est.) 
				Singapore
				males age 16-49: 1,033,961 
				females age 16-49: 1,104,952 (2009 est.) 
				Slovakia
				males age 16-49: 1,165,470 
				females age 16-49: 1,152,941 (2009 est.) 
				Slovenia
				males age 16-49: 402,484 
				females age 16-49: 390,559 (2009 est.) 
				Solomon Islands
				males age 16-49: 121,368 
				females age 16-49: 122,821 (2009 est.) 
				Somalia
				males age 16-49: 1,301,026 
				females age 16-49: 1,351,649 (2009 est.) 
				South Africa
				males age 16-49: 7,641,557 
				females age 16-49: 6,518,793 (2009 est.) 
				Spain
				males age 16-49: 8,139,020 
				females age 16-49: 7,899,157 (2009 est.) 
				Sri Lanka
				males age 16-49: 4,498,667 
				females age 16-49: 4,693,895 (2009 est.) 
				Sudan
				males age 16-49: 5,836,971 
				females age 16-49: 5,942,043 (2009 est.) 
				Suriname
				males age 16-49: 107,367 
				females age 16-49: 111,000 (2009 est.) 
				Swaziland
				males age 16-49: 124,132 
				females age 16-49: 118,570 (2009 est.) 
				Sweden
				males age 16-49: 1,705,746 
				females age 16-49: 1,645,070 (2009 est.) 
				Switzerland
				males age 16-49: 1,510,259 
				females age 16-49: 1,475,993 (2009 est.) 
				Syria
				males age 16-49: 4,360,934 
				females age 16-49: 4,344,895 (2009 est.) 
				Taiwan
				males age 16-49: 5,106,730 
				females age 16-49: 5,008,563 (2009 est.) 
				Tajikistan
				males age 16-49: 1,428,218 
				females age 16-49: 1,603,779 (2009 est.) 
				Tanzania
				males age 16-49: 5,473,552 
				females age 16-49: 5,493,188 (2009 est.) 
				Thailand
				males age 16-49: 13,086,106 
				females age 16-49: 14,126,398 (2009 est.) 
				Timor-Leste
				males age 16-49: 230,534 
				females age 16-49: 238,610 (2009 est.) 
				Togo
				males age 16-49: 929,395 
				females age 16-49: 943,967 (2009 est.) 
				Tonga
				males age 16-49: 26,471 
				females age 16-49: 27,715 (2009 est.) 
				Trinidad and Tobago
				males age 16-49: 276,224 
				females age 16-49: 271,677 (2009 est.) 
				Tunisia
				males age 16-49: 2,569,403 
				females age 16-49: 2,489,651 (2009 est.) 
				Turkey
				males age 16-49: 17,223,506 
				females age 16-49: 16,995,299 (2009 est.) 
				Turkmenistan
				males age 16-49: 1,024,884 
				females age 16-49: 1,147,714 (2009 est.) 
				Turks and Caicos Islands
				males age 16-49: 4,937 
				females age 16-49: 4,648 (2009 est.) 
				Tuvalu
				males age 16-49: 2,462 
				females age 16-49: 2,631 (2009 est.) 
				Uganda
				males age 16-49: 3,996,597 
				females age 16-49: 3,899,717 (2009 est.) 
				Ukraine
				males age 16-49: 7,056,742 
				females age 16-49: 9,234,591 (2009 est.) 
				United Arab Emirates
				males age 16-49: 2,081,491 
				females age 16-49: 788,632 (2009 est.) 
				United Kingdom
				males age 16-49: 12,123,900 
				females age 16-49: 11,616,769 (2009 est.) 
				United States
				males age 16-49: 59,764,677 
				females age 16-49: 59,437,663 (2009 est.) 
				Uruguay
				males age 16-49: 708,545 
				females age 16-49: 693,622 (2009 est.) 
				Uzbekistan
				males age 16-49: 6,340,446 
				females age 16-49: 6,559,769 (2009 est.) 
				Vanuatu
				males age 16-49: 41,533 
				females age 16-49: 42,837 (2009 est.) 
				Venezuela
				males age 16-49: 5,391,582 
				females age 16-49: 5,873,563 (2009 est.) 
				Vietnam
				males age 16-49: 19,190,676 
				females age 16-49: 20,768,508 (2009 est.) 
				Virgin Islands
				males age 16-49: 17,820 
				females age 16-49: 21,193 (2009 est.) 
				Wallis and Futuna
				males age 16-49: 3,273 
				females age 16-49: 3,297 (2009 est.) 
				West Bank
				males age 16-49: 545,653 
				females age 16-49: 515,102 (2009 est.) 
				Western Sahara
				males age 16-49: 52,267 
				females age 16-49: 59,221 (2009 est.) 
				Yemen
				males age 16-49: 3,733,704 
				females age 16-49: 3,773,626 (2009 est.) 
				Zambia
				males age 16-49: 1,364,173 
				females age 16-49: 1,245,220 (2009 est.) 
				Zimbabwe
				males age 16-49: 1,198,727 
				females age 16-49: 1,436,232 (2009 est.)  		
				This page was last updated on 19 March 2009
&nbsp; 
CIA - The World Factbook -- Field Listing - Military - note
&nbsp; 
				    &nbsp; 
                    Field Listing - Military - note
         Home 
          &nbsp;Reference Maps 
          &nbsp;Appendixes 
			Country
			Military - note 	
				Akrotiri
			Akrotiri has a full RAF base, Headquarters for British Forces on Cyprus, and Episkopi Support Unit 
				American Samoa
			defense is the responsibility of the US 
				Andorra
			defense is the responsibility of France and Spain 
				Anguilla
			defense is the responsibility of the UK 
				Antarctica
			the Antarctic Treaty prohibits any measures of a military nature, such as the establishment of military bases and fortifications, the carrying out of military maneuvers, or the testing of any type of weapon; it permits the use of military personnel or equipment for scientific research or for any other peaceful purposes 
				Argentina
			the Argentine military is a well-organized force constrained by the country's prolonged economic hardship; the country has recently experienced a strong recovery, and the military is implementing a modernization plan aimed at making the ground forces lighter and more responsive (2008) 
				Aruba
			defense is the responsibility of the Kingdom of the Netherlands 
				Ashmore and Cartier Islands
			defense is the responsibility of Australia; periodic visits by the Royal Australian Navy and Royal Australian Air Force 
				Barbados
			the Royal Barbados Defense Force includes a land-based Troop Command and a small Coast Guard; the primary role of the land element is to defend the island against external aggression; the Command consists of a single, part-time battalion with a small regular cadre that is deployed throughout the island; it increasingly supports the police in patrolling the coastline to prevent smuggling and other illicit activities (2007) 
				Bermuda
			defense is the responsibility of the UK 
				Bouvet Island
			defense is the responsibility of Norway 
				British Indian Ocean Territory
			defense is the responsibility of the UK; the US lease on Diego Garcia expires in 2016 
				British Virgin Islands
			defense is the responsibility of the UK 
				Cayman Islands
			defense is the responsibility of the UK 
				Christmas Island
			defense is the responsibility of Australia 
				Clipperton Island
			defense is the responsibility of France 
				Cocos (Keeling) Islands
			defense is the responsibility of Australia; the territory has a five-person police force 
				Cook Islands
			defense is the responsibility of New Zealand, in consultation with the Cook Islands and at its request 
				Coral Sea Islands
			defense is the responsibility of Australia 
				Cuba
			the collapse of the Soviet Union deprived the Cuban Army of its major economic and logistic support, and had a significant impact on equipment numbers and serviceability; the army remains well trained and professional in nature; while the lack of replacement parts for its existing equipment and the current severe shortage of fuel have increasingly affected operational capabilities, Cuba remains able to offer considerable resistance to any regional power
				Dhekelia
			includes Dhekelia Garrison and Ayios Nikolaos Station connected by a roadway 
				European Union
			the five-nation Eurocorps - created in 1992 by France, Germany, Belgium, Spain, and Luxembourg - has deployed troops and police on peacekeeping missions to Bosnia-Herzegovina, Macedonia, and the Democratic Republic of the Congo and assumed command of the ISAF in Afghanistan in August 2004; Eurocorps directly commands the 5,000-man Franco-German Brigade, the Multinational Command Support Brigade, and EUFOR in Bosnia and Herzegovina; in November 2004, the EU Council of Ministers formally committed to creating 13 1,500-man battle groups by the end of 2007, to respond to international crises on a rotating basis; 22 of the EU's 25 nations have agreed to supply troops; France, Italy, and the UK formed the first of three battle groups in 2005; Norway, Sweden, Estonia, and Finland established the Nordic Battle Group effective 1 January 2008; nine other groups are to be formed; a rapid-reaction naval EU Maritime Task Group was stood up in March 2007 (2007) 
				Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas)
			defense is the responsibility of the UK 
				Faroe Islands
			defense is the responsibility of Denmark 
				French Polynesia
			defense is the responsibility of France 
				French Southern and Antarctic Lands
			defense is the responsibility of France 
				Georgia
			a CIS peacekeeping force of Russian troops is deployed in the Abkhazia region of Georgia together with a UN military observer group; a Russian peacekeeping battalion is deployed in South Ossetia 
				Gibraltar
			defense is the responsibility of the UK; the Royal Gibraltar Regiment replaced the last British regular infantry forces in 1992 
				Greenland
			defense is the responsibility of Denmark 
				Guam
			defense is the responsibility of the US 
				Guernsey
			defense is the responsibility of the UK 
				Heard Island and McDonald Islands
			defense is the responsibility of Australia; Australia conducts fisheries patrols 
				Holy See (Vatican City)
			defense is the responsibility of Italy; ceremonial and limited security duties performed by Pontifical Swiss Guard 
				Hong Kong
			defense is the responsibility of China 
				Iceland
			Iceland has no standing military force; under a 1951 bilateral agreement - still valid - its defense was provided by the US-manned Icelandic Defense Force (IDF) headquartered at Keflavik; however, all US military forces in Iceland were withdrawn as of October 2006; although wartime defense of Iceland remains a NATO commitment, in April 2007, Iceland and Norway signed a bilateral agreement providing for Norwegian aerial surveillance and defense of Icelandic airspace
				Isle of Man
			defense is the responsibility of the UK 
				Jan Mayen
			defense is the responsibility of Norway 
				Jersey
			defense is the responsibility of the UK 
				Kiribati
			Kiribati does not have military forces; defense assistance is provided by Australia and NZ 
				Laos
			serving one of the world's least developed countries, the Lao People's Armed Forces (LPAF) is small, poorly funded, and ineffectively resourced; its mission focus is border and internal security, primarily in countering ethnic Hmong insurgent groups; together with the Lao People's Revolutionary Party and the government, the Lao People's Army (LPA) is the third pillar of state machinery, and as such is expected to suppress political and civil unrest and similar national emergencies, but the LPA also has upgraded skills to respond to avian influenza outbreaks; there is no perceived external threat to the state and the LPA maintains strong ties with the neighboring Vietnamese military (2008) 
				Lesotho
			Lesotho's declared policy is maintenance of its independent sovereignty and preservation of internal security; in practice, external security is guaranteed by South Africa; restructuring of the Lesotho Defense Force (LDF) and Ministry of Defense and Public Service over the past five years has focused on subordinating the defense apparatus to civilian control and restoring the LDF's cohesion; the restructuring has considerably improved capabilities and professionalism, but the LDF is disproportionately large for a small, poor country; the government has outlined a reduction to a planned 1,500-man strength, but these plans have met with vociferous resistance from the political opposition and from inside the LDF (2008) 
				Liechtenstein
			Liechtenstein has no military forces, but is interested in European security policy and is an active member of the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE) 
				Macau
			defense is the responsibility of China 
				Maldives
			the Maldives National Defense Force (MNDF), with its small size and with little serviceable equipment, is inadequate to prevent external aggression and is primarily tasked to reinforce the Maldives Police Service (MPS) and ensure security in the exclusive economic zone (2008) 
				Marshall Islands
			defense is the responsibility of the US 
				Mayotte
			defense is the responsibility of France; a small contingent of French forces is stationed on the island 
				Micronesia, Federated States of
			defense is the responsibility of the US 
				Monaco
			defense is the responsibility of France 
				Montenegro
			Montenegrin plans call for the establishment of a fully professional armed forces 
				Montserrat
			defense is the responsibility of the UK 
				Nauru
			Nauru maintains no defense forces; under an informal agreement, defense is the responsibility of Australia 
				Navassa Island
			defense is the responsibility of the US 
				Netherlands Antilles
			defense is the responsibility of the Kingdom of the Netherlands 
				New Caledonia
			defense is the responsibility of France 
				Niue
			defense is the responsibility of New Zealand 
				Norfolk Island
			defense is the responsibility of Australia 
				Northern Mariana Islands
			defense is the responsibility of the US 
				Palau
			defense is the responsibility of the US; under a Compact of Free Association between Palau and the US, the US military is granted access to the islands for 50 years, but it has not stationed any military forces there (2008) 
				Panama
			on 10 February 1990, the government of then President ENDARA abolished Panama's military and reformed the security apparatus by creating the Panamanian Public Forces; in October 1994, Panama's Legislative Assembly approved a constitutional amendment prohibiting the creation of a standing military force but allowing the temporary establishment of special police units to counter acts of "external aggression" 
				Paracel Islands
			occupied by China 
				Pitcairn Islands
			defense is the responsibility of the UK 
				Puerto Rico
			defense is the responsibility of the US 
				Saint Barthelemy
			defense is the responsibility of France 
				Saint Helena
			defense is the responsibility of the UK 
				Saint Martin
			defense is the responsibility of France 
				Saint Pierre and Miquelon
			defense is the responsibility of France 
				Samoa
			Samoa has no formal defense structure or regular armed forces; informal defense ties exist with NZ, which is required to consider any Samoan request for assistance under the 1962 Treaty of Friendship 
				San Marino
			defense is the responsibility of Italy 
				Sao Tome and Principe
			Sao Tome and Principe's army is a tiny force with almost no resources at its disposal and would be wholly ineffective operating unilaterally; infantry equipment is considered simple to operate and maintain but may require refurbishment or replacement after 25 years in tropical climates; poor pay, working conditions, and alleged nepotism in the promotion of officers have been problems in the past, as reflected in the 1995 and 2003 coups; these issues are being addressed with foreign assistance aimed at improving the army and its focus on realistic security concerns; command is exercised from the president, through the Minister of Defense, to the Chief of the Armed Forces staff (2005) 
				South Africa
			with the end of apartheid and the establishment of majority rule, former military, black homelands forces, and ex-opposition forces were integrated into the South African National Defense Force (SANDF); as of 2003 the integration process was considered complete 
				South Georgia and the South Sandwich Islands
			defense is the responsibility of the UK 
				Spratly Islands
			Spratly Islands consist of more than 100 small islands or reefs of which about 45 are claimed and occupied by China, Malaysia, the Philippines, Taiwan, and Vietnam 
				Svalbard
			Svalbard is a territory of Norway, demilitarized by treaty on 9 February 1920 
				Tokelau
			defense is the responsibility of New Zealand 
				Turkey
			a "National Security Policy Document" adopted in October 2005 increases the Turkish Armed Forces (TSK) role in internal security, augmenting the General Directorate of Security and Gendarmerie General Command (Jandarma); the TSK leadership continues to play a key role in politics and considers itself guardian of Turkey's secular state; in April 2007, it warned the ruling party about any pro-Islamic appointments; despite on-going negotiations on EU accession since October 2005, progress has been limited in establishing required civilian supremacy over the military; primary domestic threats are listed as fundamentalism (with the definition in some dispute with the civilian government), separatism (the Kurdish problem), and the extreme left wing; Ankara strongly opposed establishment of an autonomous Kurdish region; an overhaul of the Turkish Land Forces Command (TLFC) taking place under the "Force 2014" program is to produce 20-30% smaller, more highly trained forces characterized by greater mobility and firepower and capable of joint and combined operations; the TLFC has taken on increasing international peacekeeping responsibilities, and took charge of a NATO International Security Assistance Force (ISAF) command in Afghanistan in April 2007; the Turkish Navy is a regional naval power that wants to develop the capability to project power beyond Turkey's coastal waters; the Navy is heavily involved in NATO, multinational, and UN operations; its roles include control of territorial waters and security for sea lines of communications; the Turkish Air Force adopted an "Aerospace and Missile Defense Concept" in 2002 and has initiated project work on an integrated missile defense system; Air Force priorities include attaining a modern deployable, survivable, and sustainable force structure, and establishing a sustainable command and control system (2008) 
				Turks and Caicos Islands
			defense is the responsibility of the UK 
				United States Pacific Island Wildlife Refuges
			defense is the responsibility of the US 
				Virgin Islands
			defense is the responsibility of the US 
				Wake Island
			defense is the responsibility of the US; the US Air Force is responsible for overall administration and operation of the island; the launch support facility is administered by the US Missile Defense Agency (MDA) 
				Wallis and Futuna
			defense is the responsibility of France 
				Yemen
			a Coast Guard was established in 2002  		
				This page was last updated on 19 March 2009
&nbsp; 
CIA - The World Factbook -- Field Listing - Military branches
&nbsp; 
				    &nbsp; 
                    Field Listing - Military branches
         Home 
          &nbsp;Reference Maps 
          &nbsp;Appendixes 
			Country
			Military branches 	
				Afghanistan
			Afghan Armed Forces: Afghan National Army (ANA, includes Afghan National Army Air Corps) (2009) 
				Albania
			Joint Force Command (includes Land, Naval, and Aviation Brigade Commands), Joint Support Command (includes Logistic Command), Training and Doctrine Command (2009) 
				Algeria
			National Popular Army (ANP; includes Land Forces), Algerian National Navy (MRA), Air Force (QJJ), Territorial Air Defense Force (2005) 
				Andorra
			no regular military forces, Police Service of Andorra 
				Angola
			Angolan Armed Forces (FAA): Army, Navy (Marinha de Guerra Angola, MGA), Angolan National Air Force (Forca Aerea Nacional Angolana, FANA) (2009) 
				Antigua and Barbuda
			Royal Antigua and Barbuda Defense Force (2009) 
				Argentina
			Argentine Army (Ejercito Argentino), Navy of the Argentine Republic (Armada Republica; includes naval aviation and naval infantry), Argentine Air Force (Fuerza Aerea Argentina, FAA) (2009) 
				Armenia
			Armed Forces: Ground Forces, Air Force and Air Defense, Nagorno-Karabakh Self Defense Force (NKSDF) (2009) 
				Aruba
			no regular military forces; the Netherlands maintains a detachment of marines, a frigate, and an amphibious combat detachment in the neighboring Netherlands Antilles (2009) 
				Australia
			Australian Defense Force (ADF): Australian Army, Royal Australian Navy, Royal Australian Air Force, Special Operations Command (2006) 
				Austria
			Land Forces (KdoLdSK), Air Forces (KdoLuSK) 
				Azerbaijan
			Army, Navy, Air and Air Defense Forces (2008) 
				Bahamas, The
			Royal Bahamian Defense Force: Land Force, Navy, Air Wing (2009) 
				Bahrain
			Bahrain Defense Forces (BDF): Ground Force (includes Air Defense), Naval Force, Air Force, National Guard 
				Bangladesh
			Bangladesh Defense Force: Bangladesh Army (Sena Bahini), Bangladesh Navy (Noh Bahini, BN), Bangladesh Air Force (Biman Bahini, BAF) (2009) 
				Barbados
			Royal Barbados Defense Force: Troops Command, Barbados Coast Guard (2007) 
				Belarus
			Belarus Armed Forces: Land Force, Air and Air Defense Force (2009) 
				Belgium
			Belgian Armed Forces: Land Operations Command, Naval Operations Command, Air Operations Command (2009) 
				Belize
			Belize Defense Force (BDF): Army, BDF Air Wing, BDF Volunteer Guard (2009) 
				Benin
			Benin Armed Forces (FAB): Army (l'Arme de Terre), Benin Navy (Forces Navales Beninois, FNB), Benin People's Air Force (Force Aerienne Populaire de Benin, FAPB) (2008) 
				Bermuda
			Bermuda Regiment (2008) 
				Bhutan
			Royal Bhutan Army (includes Royal Bodyguard and Royal Bhutan Police) (2008) 
				Bolivia
			Bolivian Armed Forces: Bolivian Army (Ejercito Boliviano, EB), Bolivian Navy (Fuerza Naval Boliviana, FNB; includes marines), Bolivian Air Force (Fuerza Aerea Boliviana, FAB) (2009) 
				Bosnia and Herzegovina
			Bosnia and Herzegovina Armed Forces (OSBiH): Army of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Air and Air Defense Forces of Bosnia and Herzegovina (Zrakoplovstvo i Protuzracna Obrana, ZPO) (2009) 
				Botswana
			Botswana Defense Force: Ground Forces (includes Air Wing) (2008) 
				Brazil
			Brazilian Army, Brazilian Navy (Marinha do Brasil (MB), includes Naval Air and Marine Corps (Corpo de Fuzileiros Navais)), Brazilian Air Force (Forca Aerea Brasileira, FAB) (2008) 
				Brunei
			Royal Brunei Armed Forces (RBAF): Royal Brunei Land Forces, Royal Brunei Navy, Royal Brunei Air Force (Tentera Udara Diraja Brunei) (2009) 
				Bulgaria
			Bulgarian Armed Forces: Ground Forces, Naval Forces, Bulgarian Air Forces (Bulgarski Voennovazdyshni Sily, BVVS) (2009) 
				Burkina Faso
			Army, Air Force of Burkina Faso (Force Aerienne de Burkina Faso, FABF), National Gendarmerie (2008) 
				Burma
			Myanmar Armed Forces (Tatmadaw): Army, Navy, Air Force (Tatmadaw Lay) (2008) 
				Burundi
			National Defense Force (Forces de Defense Nationales, FDN): Army (includes Naval Detachment and Air Wing), Gendarmerie (2008) 
				Cambodia
			Royal Cambodian Armed Forces: Royal Cambodian Army, Royal Khmer Navy, Royal Cambodian Air Force (2009) 
				Cameroon
			Cameroon Armed Forces: Army, Navy (includes naval infantry), Air Force (Armee de l'Air du Cameroun, AAC) (2008) 
				Canada
			Canadian Forces: Land Forces Command (LFC), Maritime Command (MARCOM), Air Command (AIRCOM), Canada Command (homeland security) (2008) 
				Cape Verde
			People's Revolutionary Armed Forces (FARP): Army, Coast Guard (includes maritime air wing) (2007) 
				Cayman Islands
			no regular military forces; Royal Cayman Islands Police Force (2007) 
				Central African Republic
			Central African Armed Forces (Forces Armees Centrafricaines, FACA): Ground Forces, General Directorate of Gendarmerie Inspection (DGIG), Military Air Service, National Police (2008) 
				Chad
			Armed Forces: Chadian National Army (Armee Nationale du Tchad, ANT), Chadian Air Force (Force Aerienne Tchadienne, FAT), Gendarmerie (2008) 
				Chile
			Army of the Nation, Chilean Navy (Armada de Chile, includes naval air, marine corps, and Maritime Territory and Merchant Marine Directorate (Directemar)), Chilean Air Force (Fuerza Aerea de Chile, FACh), Carabineros Corps (Cuerpo de Carabineros) (2008) 
				China
			People's Liberation Army (PLA): Ground Forces, Navy (includes marines and naval aviation), Air Force (includes airborne forces), and Second Artillery Corps (strategic missile force); People's Armed Police (PAP); PLA Reserve Force (2008) 
				Colombia
			National Army (Ejercito Nacional), National Navy (Armada Nacional, includes Naval Aviation, Naval Infantry (Infanteria de Marina, Colmar), and Coast Guard), Colombian Air Force (Fuerza Aerea de Colombia, FAC) (2008) 
				Comoros
			National Development Army (AND): Comoran Security Force; Comoran Federal Police (2008) 
				Congo, Democratic Republic of the
			Armed Forces of the Democratic Republic of the Congo (Forces d'Armees de la Republique Democratique du Congo, FARDC): Army, National Navy (La Marine Nationale), Congolese Air Force (Force Aerienne Congolaise, FAC) (2008) 
				Congo, Republic of the
			Congolese Armed Forces (Forces Armees Congolaises, FAC): Army, Navy, Congolese Air Force (Armee de l'Air Congolaise), Gendarmerie, Special Presidential Security Guard (GSSP) (2008) 
				Cook Islands
			no regular military forces; National Police Department (2007) 
				Costa Rica
			no regular military forces; Ministry of Public Security, Government, and Police (2008) 
				Cote d'Ivoire
			Cote d'Ivoire Defense and Security Forces (FDSC): Army, Navy, Air Force (2006) 
				Croatia
			Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia (Oruzane Snage Republike Hrvatske, OSRH), consists of five major commands directly subordinate to a General Staff: Ground Forces (Hrvatska Kopnena Vojska, HKoV), Naval Forces (Hrvatska Ratna Mornarica, HRM), Air Force (Hrvatsko Ratno Zrakoplovstvo, HRZ), Joint Education and Training Command, Logistics Command; Military Police Force supports each of the three Croatian military forces (2008) 
				Cuba
			Revolutionary Armed Forces (Fuerzas Armadas Revolucionarias, FAR): Revolutionary Army (ER; includes Territorial Militia Troops, MTT), Revolutionary Navy (Marina de Guerra Revolucionaria, MGR; includes Marine Corps), Revolutionary Air and Air Defense Force (DAAFAR), Youth Labor Army (EJT) (2008) 
				Cyprus
			Republic of Cyprus: Greek Cypriot National Guard (Ethniki Forea, EF; includes naval and air elements); northern Cyprus: Turkish Cypriot Security Force (GKK) (2009) 
				Czech Republic
			Army of the Czech Republic (ACR): Joint Forces Command (includes Army and Air Forces), Support and Training Forces Command (2008) 
				Denmark
			Defense Command: Army Operational Command, Admiral Danish Fleet, Island Command Greenland, Tactical Air Command, Home Guard (2008) 
				Djibouti
			Djibouti National Army (includes Navy and Air Force) 
				Dominica
			no regular military forces; Commonwealth of Dominica Police Force (includes Coast Guard) (2008) 
				Dominican Republic
			Army, Navy, Air Force (Fuerza Aerea Dominicana, FAD) (2007) 
				Ecuador
			Army, Navy (includes Naval Infantry, Naval Aviation, Coast Guard), Air Force (Fuerza Aerea Ecuatoriana, FAE) (2007) 
				Egypt
			Army, Navy, Air Force, Air Defense Command 
				El Salvador
			Salvadoran Army (ES), Salvadoran Navy (FNES), Salvadoran Air Force (Fuerza Aerea Salvadorena, FAS) (2008) 
				Equatorial Guinea
			National Guard (Guardia Nacional (Army), with Coast Guard (Navy) and Air Wing) (2008) 
				Eritrea
			Eritrean Armed Forces: Ground Forces, Navy, Air Force (2008) 
				Estonia
			Estonian Defense Forces: Land Force, Navy, Air Force (Eesti Ohuvagi), Volunteer Defense League (Kaitseliit, KL) (2009) 
				Ethiopia
			Ethiopian National Defense Force (ENDF): Ground Forces, Ethiopian Air Force (ETAF) (2008) 
				note: Ethiopia is landlocked and has no navy; following the secession of Eritrea, Ethiopian naval facilities remained in Eritrean possession 
				Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas)
			no regular military forces 
				Faroe Islands
			no regular military forces 
				Fiji
			Republic of Fiji Military Forces (RFMF): Land Forces, Naval Forces (2009) 
				Finland
			Finnish Defense Forces (FDF): Army, Navy (includes Coastal Defense Forces), Air Force (Suomen Ilmavoimat) (2007) 
				France
			Army (Armee de Terre; includes Marines, Foreign Legion, Army Light Aviation), Navy (Marine Nationale, includes Naval Air, Maritime Gendarmerie (Coast Guard)), Air Force (Armee de l'Air, includes Air Defense), National Gendarmerie (2009) 
				French Polynesia
			no regular military forces; Gendarmerie and National Police Force (2007) 
				Gabon
			Army, Navy, Air Force, National Gendarmerie, National Police 
				Gambia, The
			Office of the Chief of Defense: Gambian National Army (National Guard, GNA), Gambian Navy (GN) (2008) 
				Gaza Strip
			in accordance with the peace agreement, the Palestinian Authority is not permitted conventional military forces; there are, however, public security forces (2008) 
				Georgia
			Georgian Armed Forces: Land Forces, Air and Air Defense Forces 
				note: naval forces have been incorporated into the coast guard (2009) 
				Germany
			Federal Armed Forces (Bundeswehr): Army (Heer), Navy (Deutsche Marine, includes naval air arm), Air Force (Luftwaffe), Joint Support Services (Streitkraeftbasis), Central Medical Service (Zentraler Sanitaetsdienst) (2009) 
				Ghana
			Ghanaian Army, Ghanaian Navy, Ghanaian Air Force (2007) 
				Gibraltar
			Royal Gibraltar Regiment 
				Greece
			Hellenic Army (Ellinikos Stratos, ES), Hellenic Navy (Ellinikos Polemiko Navtiko, EPN), Hellenic Air Force (Elliniki Polimiki Aeroporia, EPA) (2009) 
				Greenland
			no regular military forces 
				Grenada
			no regular military forces; Royal Grenada Police Force (includes Coast Guard) (2007) 
				Guatemala
			Army, Navy (includes Marines), Air Force 
				Guinea
			Armed Forces: Army, Navy (Marine Guineenne, includes Marines), Air Force, Presidential Guard (2008) 
				Guinea-Bissau
			People's Revolutionary Armed Force (FARP): Army, Navy, Air Force; paramilitary force 
				Guyana
			Guyana Defense Force: Army (includes Coast Guard, Air Corps) (2007) 
				Haiti
			no regular military forces - small Coast Guard; the regular Haitian Armed Forces (FAdH) - Army, Navy, and Air Force - have been demobilized but still exist on paper until or unless they are constitutionally abolished (2009) 
				Holy See (Vatican City)
			Pontifical Swiss Guard (Corpo della Guardia Svizzera Pontificia) (2007) 
				Honduras
			Army, Navy (includes Naval Infantry), Honduran Air Force (Fuerza Aerea Hondurena, FAH) (2008) 
				Hong Kong
			no regular indigenous military forces; Hong Kong garrison of China's People's Liberation Army (PLA) includes elements of the PLA Ground Forces, PLA Navy, and PLA Air Force; these forces are under the direct leadership of the Central Military Commission in Beijing and under administrative control of the adjacent Guangzhou Military Region (2009) 
				Hungary
			Ground Forces, Hungarian Air Force (Magyar Legiero, ML) (2009) 
				Iceland
			no regular military forces; Icelandic National Police (2008) 
				India
			Army, Navy (includes naval air arm), Air Force (Bharatiya Vayu Sena), Coast Guard (2009) 
				Indonesia
			Indonesian Armed Forces (Tentara Nasional Indonesia, TNI): Army (TNI-Angkatan Darat (TNI-AD)), Navy (TNI-Angkatan Laut (TNI-AL); includes marines, naval air arm), Air Force (TNI-Angkatan Udara (TNI-AU)), National Air Defense Command (Kommando Pertahanan Udara Nasional (Kohanudnas)) (2008) 
				Iran
			Islamic Republic of Iran Regular Forces (Artesh): Ground Forces, Navy, Air Force of the Military of the Islamic Republic of Iran (Niru-ye Hava'i-ye Artesh-e Jomhuri-ye Eslami-ye Iran, IRIAF; Air Defense Command being formed); Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps (Sepah-e Pasdaran-e Enqelab-e Eslami, IRGC): Ground Forces, Navy, Air Force, Qods Force (special operations), and Basij Force (Popular Mobilization Army); Law Enforcement Forces (2008) 
				Iraq
			Iraqi Armed Forces: Iraqi Army (includes Iraqi Special Operations Force, Iraqi Intervention Force), Iraqi Navy (former Iraqi Coastal Defense Force), Iraqi Air Force (former Iraqi Army Air Corps) (2005) 
				Ireland
			Irish Defense Forces (Oglaigh na h-Eireann): Army (includes Naval Service and Air Corps (Aer-Chor na h-Eireann)) (2008) 
				Israel
			Israel Defense Forces (IDF), Israel Naval Forces (INF), Israel Air Force (IAF) (2007) 
				Italy
			Italian Army (Esercito Italiano, EI), Italian Navy (Marina Militare Italiana, MMI), Italian Air Force (Aeronautica Militare Italiana, AMI), Carabinieri Corps (Arma dei Carabinieri, CC) (2008) 
				Jamaica
			Jamaica Defense Force: Ground Forces, Coast Guard, Air Wing (2007) 
				Japan
			Japanese Ministry of Defense (MOD): Ground Self-Defense Force (Rikujou Jietai, GSDF), Maritime Self-Defense Force (Kaijou Jietai, MSDF), Air Self-Defense Force (Koku Jieitai, ASDF) (2008) 
				Jordan
			Jordanian Armed Forces (JAF): Royal Jordanian Land Force, Royal Jordanian Navy, Royal Jordanian Air Force (Al-Quwwat al-Jawwiya al-Malakiya al-Urduniya, RJAF), Special Operations Command (Socom); Public Security Directorate (normally falls under Ministry of Interior, but comes under JAF in wartime or crisis) (2008) 
				Kazakhstan
			Ground Forces, Naval Force, Air and Air Defense Forces, Republican Guard 
				Kenya
			Kenyan Army, Kenyan Navy, Kenyan Air Force (2008) 
				Kiribati
			no regular military forces (constitutionally prohibited); Police Force (2008) 
				Korea, North
			North Korean People's Army: Ground Forces, Navy, Air Force; civil security forces (2005) 
				Korea, South
			Republic of Korea Army, Navy (includes Marine Corps), Air Force (2008) 
				Kuwait
			Land Forces, Kuwaiti Navy, Kuwaiti Air Force (Al-Quwwat al-Jawwiya al-Kuwaitiya), National Guard (2007) 
				Kyrgyzstan
			Army, Air Force, National Guard (2005) 
				Laos
			Lao People's Armed Forces (LPAF): Lao People's Army (LPA; includes Riverine Force), Air Force (2008) 
				Latvia
			National Armed Forces (Nacionalo Brunoto Speku): Ground Forces, Navy (Latvijas Juras Speki; includes Coast Guard (Latvijas Kara Flotes)), Latvian Air Force (Latvijas Gaisa Speki), Border Guard, Latvian Home Guard (Latvijas Zemessardze) (2008) 
				Lebanon
			Lebanese Armed Forces (LAF): Army (includes Navy), Air Force (Al Quwwat al Jawwiya al Lubnaniya) (2009) 
				Lesotho
			Lesotho Defense Force (LDF): Army (includes Air Wing) (2008) 
				Liberia
			Armed Forces of Liberia (AFL): Army, Navy, Air Force 
				Libya
			Armed Peoples on Duty (APOD, Army), Libyan Arab Navy, Libyan Arab Air Force (Al-Quwwat al-Jawwiya al-Jamahiriya al-Arabia al-Libyya, LAAF) (2008) 
				Liechtenstein
			no regular military forces (constitutionally prohibited); Principality of Liechtenstein National Police (Landespolizei, LP) (2008) 
				Lithuania
			Ground Forces, Naval Force, Lithuanian Military Air Forces, National Defense Volunteer Forces (2005) 
				Luxembourg
			Army (2007) 
				Macau
			no regular military forces; defense is the responsibility of China (2008) 
				Macedonia
			Army of the Republic of Macedonia (ARM): Joint Operational Command, with subordinate Air Wing (Makedonsko Voeno Vozduhoplovstvo, MVV), Special Operations Regiment (2007) 
				Madagascar
			People's Armed Forces: Intervention Force, Development Force, and Aeronaval Force (navy and air); National Gendarmerie 
				Malawi
			Malawi Armed Forces: Army (includes Air Wing and Naval Detachment) (2007) 
				Malaysia
			Malaysian Armed Forces (Angkatan Tentera Malaysia, ATM): Malaysian Army (Tentera Darat Malaysia), Royal Malaysian Navy (Tentera Laut Diraja Malaysia, TLDM), Royal Malaysian Air Force (Tentera Udara Diraja Malaysia, TUDM) (2008) 
				Maldives
			Maldives National Defense Force (MNDF): Quick Reaction Force, Security Protection Group, Coast Guard (2009) 
				Mali
			Malian Armed Forces: Army, Republic of Mali Air Force (Force Aerienne de la Republique du Mali, FARM), National Guard (2008) 
				Malta
			Armed Forces of Malta (AFM; includes air and maritime elements) (2007) 
				Marshall Islands
			no regular military forces; under the 1983 Compact of Free Association, the US has full authority and responsibility for security and defense of the Marshall Islands; Marshall Islands Police (2008) 
				Mauritania
			Mauritanian Armed Forces: Army, Mauritanian Navy (Marine Mauritanienne; includes naval infantry), Islamic Air Force of Mauritania (Force Aerienne Islamique de Mauritanie, FAIM) (2008) 
				Mauritius
			no regular military forces; National Police Force, Special Mobile Force, National Coast Guard (2008) 
				Mexico
			Secretariat of National Defense (Secretaria de Defensa Nacional, Sedena): Army (Ejercito, includes Mexican Air Force (Fuerza Aerea Mexicana, FAM)); Secretariat of the Navy (Secretaria de Marina, Semar): Mexican Navy (Armada de Mexico, ARM, includes Naval Air Force (FAN) and naval infantry) (2008) 
				Micronesia, Federated States of
			no regular military forces 
				Moldova
			National Army: Ground Forces, Rapid Reaction Forces, Air and Air Defense Forces (2008) 
				Monaco
			no regular military forces; the Palace Guard performs ceremonial duties 
				Mongolia
			Mongolian Armed Forces: Mongolian Army, Mongolian Air Force; there is no navy (2009) 
				Montenegro
			Armed Forces of the Republic of Montenegro: Army, Navy (serves as Coast Guard), Air Force (2008) 
				Montserrat
			no regular military forces; Royal Montserrat Police Force (2008) 
				Morocco
			Royal Armed Forces (Forces Armees Royales, FAR): Royal Moroccan Army (includes Air Defense), Navy (includes Marines), Royal Moroccan Air Force (Al Quwwat al Jawyiya al Malakiya Marakishiya; Force Aerienne Royale Marocaine) (2008) 
				Mozambique
			Mozambique Armed Defense Forces (FADM): Mozambique Army, Mozambique Navy (Marinha Mocambique, MM), Mozambique Air Force (Forca Aerea de Mocambique, FAM) (2006) 
				Namibia
			Namibian Defense Force: Army, Navy, Air Wing (2008) 
				Nauru
			no regular military forces; Nauru Police Force (2009) 
				Nepal
			Nepalese Army, Armed Police Force (2008) 
				Netherlands
			Royal Netherlands Army, Royal Netherlands Navy (includes Naval Air Service and Marine Corps), Royal Netherlands Air Force (Koninklijke Luchtmacht, KLu), Royal Military Police (2008) 
				Netherlands Antilles
			no regular military forces; National Guard (2008) 
				New Caledonia
			no regular indigenous military forces; French Armed Forces (includes Army, Navy, Air Force, Gendarmerie); Police Force 
				New Zealand
			New Zealand Defense Force (NZDF): New Zealand Army, Royal New Zealand Navy, Royal New Zealand Air Force (2009) 
				Nicaragua
			National Army of Nicaragua (ENN; includes Navy, Air Force) (2008) 
				Niger
			Nigerien Armed Forces (Forces Armees Nigeriennes, FAN): Army, Niger Air Force (Force Aerienne du Niger) (2008) 
				Nigeria
			Nigerian Armed Forces: Army, Navy, Air Force (2008) 
				Niue
			no regular indigenous military forces; Police Force 
				Norway
			Norwegian Army (Haeren), Royal Norwegian Navy (Kongelige Norske Sjoeforsvaret, RNoN; includes Coastal Rangers and Coast Guard (Kystvakt)), Royal Norwegian Air Force (Kongelige Norske Luftforsvaret, RNoAF), Home Guard (Heimevernet, HV) (2007) 
				Oman
			Sultan's Armed Forces (SAF): Royal Army of Oman, Royal Navy of Oman, Royal Air Force of Oman (2008) 
				Pakistan
			Army (includes National Guard), Navy (includes Marines and Maritime Security Agency), Pakistan Air Force (Pakistan Fiza'ya) (2008) 
				Palau
			no regular military forces; Palau National Police (2009) 
				Panama
			no regular military forces; Panamanian Public Forces or PPF includes the Panamanian National Police (PNP), National Maritime Service (NMS), and National Air Service (NAS) (2008) 
				Papua New Guinea
			Papua New Guinea Defense Force (PNGDF; includes Maritime Operations Element, Air Operations Element) (2009) 
				Paraguay
			Army, National Navy (Armada Nacional, includes Naval Aviation, Marine Corps, General Naval Prefecture), Air Force (Fuerza Aerea Paraguay, FAP) (2008) 
				Peru
			Army of Peru (Ejercito Peruano), Navy of Peru (Marina de Guerra del Peru, MGP (includes naval air, naval infantry, and Coast Guard)), Air Force of Peru (Fuerza Aerea del Peru, FAP) (2008) 
				Philippines
			Armed Forces of the Philippines (AFP): Army, Navy (includes Marine Corps), Air Force (2008) 
				Poland
			Polish Armed Forces: Land Forces (includes Navy (Marynarka Wojenna, MW)), Polish Air Force (Sily Powietrzne Rzeczypospolitej Polskiej, SPRP) (2008) 
				Portugal
			Portuguese Army (Exercito Portugues), Portuguese Navy (Marinha Portuguesa; includes Marine Corps), Portuguese Air Force (Forca Aerea Portuguesa, FAP) (2008) 
				Puerto Rico
			no regular indigenous military forces; paramilitary National Guard, Police Force 
				Qatar
			Qatari Amiri Land Force (QALF), Qatari Amiri Navy (QAN), Qatari Amiri Air Force (QAAF) (2007) 
				Romania
			Land Forces, Naval Forces, Romanian Air Force (Fortele Aeriene Romane, FAR), Special Operations (2009) 
				Russia
			Ground Forces (SV), Navy (VMF), Air Forces (Voyenno-Vozdushniye Sily, VVS); Airborne Troops (VDV), Strategic Rocket Troops (Raketnyye Voyska Strategicheskogo Naznacheniya, RVSN), and Space Troops (KV) are independent "combat arms," not subordinate to any of the three branches; Russian Ground Forces include the following combat arms: motorized-rifle troops, tank troops, missile and artillery troops, air defense of ground troops (2008) 
				Rwanda
			Rwandan Defense Forces: Army, Air Force 
				Saint Kitts and Nevis
			Saint Kitts and Nevis Defense Force (includes Coast Guard), Royal Saint Kitts and Nevis Police Force 
				Saint Lucia
			no regular military forces; Royal Saint Lucia Police Force (includes Special Service Unit, Coast Guard) (2007) 
				Saint Vincent and the Grenadines
			no regular military forces; Royal Saint Vincent and the Grenadines Police Force, Coast Guard (2007) 
				Samoa
			no regular military forces; Samoa Police Force (2008) 
				San Marino
			no regular military forces; Voluntary Military Force (Corpi Militari Voluntar) performs ceremonial duties and limited police support functions (2008) 
				Sao Tome and Principe
			Armed Forces of Sao Tome and Principe (FASTP): Army, Coast Guard of Sao Tome e Principe (Guarda Costeira de Sao Tome e Principe, GCSTP), Presidential Guard (2007) 
				Saudi Arabia
			Land Forces (Army), Navy, Air Force, Air Defense Force, National Guard, Ministry of Interior Forces (paramilitary) 
				Senegal
			Army, Senegalese Navy (Marine Senegalaise), Senegalese Air Force (Armee de l'Air du Senegal) (2008) 
				Serbia
			Serbian Armed Forces (Vojska Srbije, VS): Land Forces Command (includes Riverine Component, consisting of a river flotilla on the Danube), Joint Operations Command, Air and Air Defense Forces Command (2008) 
				Seychelles
			Seychelles Defense Force: Army, Coast Guard (includes Naval Wing, Air Wing), National Guard (2005) 
				Sierra Leone
			Republic of Sierra Leone Armed Forces (RSLAF): Army (includes Navy (Maritime Wing), Air Wing) (2008) 
				Singapore
			Singapore Armed Forces: Army, Navy, Air Force (includes Air Defense) (2008) 
				Slovakia
			Armed Forces of the Slovak Republic (Ozbrojene Sily Slovenskej Republiky): Land Forces (Pozemne Sily), Air Forces (Vzdusne Sily) (2008) 
				Slovenia
			Slovenian Army (includes air and naval forces) 
				Solomon Islands
			no regular military forces; Solomon Islands Police Force (2009) 
				Somalia
			no national-level armed forces (2008) 
				South Africa
			South African National Defense Force (SANDF): South African Army, South African Navy (SAN), South African Air Force (SAAF), Joint Operations Command, Military Intelligence, Military Health Services (2008) 
				Spain
			Spanish Armed Forces: Army (Ejercito de Tierra), Spanish Navy (Armada Espanola, AE; includes Marine Corps), Spanish Air Force (Ejercito del Aire Espanola, EdA) (2007) 
				Sri Lanka
			Sri Lanka Army, Sri Lanka Navy, Sri Lanka Air Force (2008) 
				Sudan
			Sudanese Armed Forces (SAF): Land Forces, Navy, Sudanese Air Force (Sikakh al-Jawwiya as-Sudaniya), Popular Defense Forces; Sudan People's Liberation Army (SPLA): Land Forces (2009) 
				Suriname
			National Army (Nationaal Leger, NL; includes Naval Wing, Air Wing) (2007) 
				Svalbard
			no regular military forces 
				Swaziland
			Umbutfo Swaziland Defense Force (USDF): Ground Force (includes air wing) (2008) 
				Sweden
			Swedish Armed Forces (Forsvarsmakten): Army (Armen), Royal Swedish Navy (Marinen), Swedish Air Force (Svenska Flygvapnet) (2008) 
				Switzerland
			Swiss Armed Forces: Land Forces, Swiss Air Force (Schweizer Luftwaffe) (2009) 
				Syria
			Syrian Armed Forces: Syrian Arab Army, Syrian Arab Navy, Syrian Arab Air and Air Defense Forces (includes Air Defense Command) (2008) 
				Taiwan
			Army, Navy (includes Marine Corps), Air Force, Coast Guard Administration, Armed Forces Reserve Command, Combined Service Forces Command, Armed Forces Police Command 
				Tajikistan
			Ground Forces, Air and Air Defense Forces, Mobile Force (2008) 
				Tanzania
			Tanzanian People's Defense Force (Jeshi la Wananchi la Tanzania, JWTZ): Army, Naval Wing (includes Coast Guard), Air Defense Command (includes Air Wing), National Service (2007) 
				Thailand
			Royal Thai Army (RTA), Royal Thai Navy (RTN, includes Royal Thai Marine Corps), Royal Thai Air Force (Knogtap Agard Thai, RTAF) (2008) 
				Timor-Leste
			Timor-Leste Defense Force (Forcas de Defesa de Timor-L'este, Falintil (FDTL)): Army, Navy (Armada) (2009) 
				Togo
			Togolese Armed Forces: Ground Forces, Togolese Navy (Marine du Togo), Togolese Air Force (Force Aerienne Togolaise, FAT), National Gendarmerie (2009) 
				Tonga
			Tonga Defense Services (TDS): Land Force (Royal Guard), Naval Force (includes Royal Marines, Air Wing) (2008) 
				Trinidad and Tobago
			Trinidad and Tobago Defense Force (TTDF): Trinidad and Tobago Regiment, Coast Guard, Air Guard (2008) 
				Tunisia
			Army, Navy, Republic of Tunisia Air Force (Al-Quwwat al-Jawwiya al-Jamahiriyah At'tunisia) (2008) 
				Turkey
			Turkish Armed Forces (TSK): Turkish Land Forces (Turk Kara Kuvvetleri, TKK), Turkish Naval Forces (Turk Deniz Kuvvetleri, TDK; includes naval air and naval infantry), Turkish Air Force (Turk Hava Kuvvetleri, THK) (2008) 
				Turkmenistan
			Ground Forces, Navy, Air and Air Defense Forces (2007) 
				Tuvalu
			no regular military forces; Tuvalu Police Force (2008) 
				Uganda
			Uganda Peoples Defense Force (UPDF): Army (includes Marine Unit), Air Force (2007) 
				Ukraine
			Ground Forces, Naval Forces, Air Forces (Viyskovo-Povitryani Syly), Air Defense Forces (2002) 
				United Arab Emirates
			United Arab Emirates Armed Forces: Army, Navy (includes Marines), Air Force and Air Defense, National Coast Guard (2008) 
				United Kingdom
			Army, Royal Navy (includes Royal Marines), Royal Air Force 
				United States
			US Army, US Navy (includes Marine Corps), US Air Force, US Coast Guard; note - Coast Guard administered in peacetime by the Department of Homeland Security, but in wartime reports to the Department of the Navy (2008) 
				Uruguay
			Uruguayan Armed Forces: Army (Ejercito), Navy (Armada Nacional; includes naval air arm, Marines, Maritime Prefecture in wartime), Air Force (Fuerza Aerea Uruguaya, FAU) (2008) 
				Uzbekistan
			Army, Air and Air Defense Forces, National Guard 
				Vanuatu
			no regular military forces; Vanuatu Police Force (VPF), Vanuatu Mobile Force (VMF; includes Police Maritime Wing (PMW)) (2008) 
				Venezuela
			National Bolivarian Armed Forces (Fuerza Armada Nacional Bolivariana, FANB): National Bolivarian Army (Ejercito Nacional Bolivariano, ENB), Bolivarian Navy (Fuerza Armada Bolivariana (FAB); includes Marines, Coast Guard, Naval Aviation), Bolivarian National Military Aviation (Aviacion Militar Nacional Bolivariana, AMNB), Bolivarian National Guard (Guardia Nacional Bolivaria, GNB) (2009) 
				Vietnam
			People's Armed Forces: People's Army of Vietnam (PAVN) (includes People's Navy Command (with naval infantry, coast guard), Air and Air Defense Force (Kon Quan Nhan Dan), Border Defense Command), People's Public Security Forces, Militia Force, Self-Defense Forces (2005) 
				Yemen
			Army (includes Republican Guard), Navy (includes Marines), Yemen Air Force (Al Quwwat al Jawwiya al Jamahiriya al Yemeniya; includes Air Defense Force) (2008) 
				Zambia
			Zambian National Defense Force (ZNDF): Zambian Army, Zambian Air Force, National Service (2009) 
				Zimbabwe
			Zimbabwe Defense Forces (ZDF): Zimbabwe National Army (ZNA), Air Force of Zimbabwe (AFZ), Zimbabwe Republic Police (ZRP) (2009)  		
				This page was last updated on 19 March 2009
&nbsp; 
CIA - The World Factbook -- Field Listing - Budget
&nbsp; 
				    &nbsp; 
                    Field Listing - Budget
         Home 
          &nbsp;Reference Maps 
          &nbsp;Appendixes 
			Country
			Budget 	
				Afghanistan
				revenues: $890 million 
				expenditures: $2.7 billion 
				note: Afghanistan has also received $2.6 billion from the Reconstruction Trust Fund and $63 million from the Law and Order Trust Fund (2007 est.) 
				Albania
				revenues: $3.771 billion 
				expenditures: $4.538 billion (2008 est.) 
				Algeria
				revenues: $73.26 billion 
				expenditures: $51.19 billion (2008 est.) 
				American Samoa
				revenues: $155.4 million (37% in local revenue and 63% in US grants) 
				expenditures: $183.6 million (FY07) 
				Andorra
				revenues: $496.9 million 
				expenditures: $496.8 million (2007) 
				Angola
				revenues: $27.18 billion 
				expenditures: $20.6 billion (2008 est.) 
				Anguilla
				revenues: $22.8 million 
				expenditures: $22.5 million (2000 est.) 
				Antigua and Barbuda
				revenues: $123.7 million 
				expenditures: $145.9 million (2000 est.) 
				Argentina
				revenues: $86.3 billion 
				expenditures: $80.4 billion (2008 est.) 
				Armenia
				revenues: $2.438 billion 
				expenditures: $2.696 billion; including capital expenditures of $NA (2008 est.) 
				Aruba
				revenues: $507.9 million 
				expenditures: $577.9 million (2005 est.) 
				Australia
				revenues: $343.6 billion 
				expenditures: $340.7 billion (2008 est.) 
				Austria
				revenues: $198.6 billion 
				expenditures: $203 billion (2008 est.) 
				Azerbaijan
				revenues: $14.51 billion 
				expenditures: $15.66 billion (2008 est.) 
				Bahamas, The
				revenues: $1.03 billion 
				expenditures: $1.03 billion (FY04/05) 
				Bahrain
				revenues: $7.226 billion 
				expenditures: $5.806 billion (2008 est.) 
				Bangladesh
				revenues: $8.831 billion 
				expenditures: $12.54 billion (2008 est.) 
				Barbados
				revenues: $847 million (including grants) 
				expenditures: $886 million (2000 est.) 
				Belarus
				revenues: $25.23 billion 
				expenditures: $26.05 billion (2008 est.) 
				Belgium
				revenues: $251.3 billion 
				expenditures: $254.2 billion (2008 est.) 
				Belize
				revenues: $335.5 million 
				expenditures: $361.5 million (2008 est.) 
				Benin
				revenues: $1.436 billion 
				expenditures: $1.729 billion (2008 est.) 
				Bermuda
				revenues: $738 million 
				expenditures: $665 million (FY04/05) 
				Bhutan
				revenues: $272 million 
				expenditures: $350 million 
				note: the government of India finances nearly three-fifths of Bhutan's budget expenditures (2005) 
				Bolivia
				revenues: $8.044 billion 
				expenditures: $7.341 billion (2008 est.) 
				Bosnia and Herzegovina
				revenues: $8.607 billion 
				expenditures: $8.962 billion (2008 est.) 
				Botswana
				revenues: $4.556 billion 
				expenditures: $4.127 billion (2008 est.) 
				Brazil
				revenues: NA 
				expenditures: NA 
				British Virgin Islands
				revenues: $204.7 million 
				expenditures: $180.4 million (2004) 
				Brunei
				revenues: $6.889 billion 
				expenditures: $4 billion (2008 est.) 
				Bulgaria
				revenues: $20.43 billion 
				expenditures: $18.93 billion (2008) 
				Burkina Faso
				revenues: $1.799 billion 
				expenditures: $2.337 billion (2008 est.) 
				Burma
				revenues: NA 
				expenditures: NA 
				Burundi
				revenues: $292.2 million 
				expenditures: $351.3 million; including capital expenditures of $NA (2008 est.) 
				Cambodia
				revenues: $1.264 billion 
				expenditures: $1.478 billion (2008 est.) 
				Cameroon
				revenues: $5.371 billion 
				expenditures: $4.319 billion (2008 est.) 
				Canada
				revenues: $608.3 billion 
				expenditures: $606 billion (2008 est.) 
				Cape Verde
				revenues: $525.4 million 
				expenditures: $585.3 million (2008 est.) 
				Cayman Islands
				revenues: $423.8 million 
				expenditures: $392.6 million (2004) 
				Central African Republic
				revenues: $250 million 
				expenditures: $273 million (2007 est.) 
				Chad
				revenues: $2.142 billion 
				expenditures: $2.125 billion (2008 est.) 
				Chile
				revenues: $46.5 billion 
				expenditures: $37.7 billion (2008 est.) 
				China
				revenues: $868.6 billion 
				expenditures: $850.5 billion (2008 est.) 
				Christmas Island
				revenues: $NA 
				expenditures: $NA 
				Cocos (Keeling) Islands
				revenues: $NA 
				expenditures: $NA 
				Colombia
				revenues: $76.42 billion 
				expenditures: $78.49 billion; including capital expenditures of $NA (2008 est.) 
				Comoros
				revenues: $27.6 million 
				expenditures: $NA (2001 est.) 
				Congo, Democratic Republic of the
				revenues: $700 million 
				expenditures: $2 billion (2006 est.) 
				Congo, Republic of the
				revenues: $5.363 billion 
				expenditures: $2.758 billion (2008 est.) 
				Cook Islands
				revenues: $70.95 million 
				expenditures: $69.05 million (FY05/06) 
				Costa Rica
				revenues: $4.604 billion 
				expenditures: $4.552 billion (2008 est.) 
				Cote d'Ivoire
				revenues: $4.725 billion 
				expenditures: $5.082 billion (2008 est.) 
				Croatia
				revenues: $23.71 billion 
				expenditures: $23.46 billion (2008 est.) 
				Cuba
				revenues: $41.06 billion 
				expenditures: $43.33 billion (2008 est.) 
				Cyprus
				revenues:: $11.33 billion 
				expenditures:: $11.2 billion (2008 est.) 
				Czech Republic
				revenues: $94.96 billion 
				expenditures: $99.46 billion (2008 est.) 
				Denmark
				revenues: $192 billion 
				expenditures: $177.6 billion (2008 est.) 
				Djibouti
				revenues: $135 million 
				expenditures: $182 million (1999 est.) 
				Dominica
				revenues: $73.9 million 
				expenditures: $84.4 million (2001) 
				Dominican Republic
				revenues: $7.947 billion 
				expenditures: $9.069 billion (2008 est.) 
				Ecuador
				revenues: $19.44 billion 
				expenditures: planned $17.79 billion (2008 est.) 
				Egypt
				revenues: $40.46 billion 
				expenditures: $51.38 billion (2008 est.) 
				El Salvador
				revenues: $3.928 billion 
				expenditures: $4.226 billion (2008 est.) 
				Equatorial Guinea
				revenues: $7.056 billion 
				expenditures: $3.779 billion (2008 est.) 
				Eritrea
				revenues: $234.5 million 
				expenditures: $523.1 million (2008 est.) 
				Estonia
				revenues: $8.92 billion 
				expenditures: $9.091 billion (2008 est.) 
				Ethiopia
				revenues: $4.586 billion 
				expenditures: $5.729 billion (2008 est.) 
				Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas)
				revenues: $66.2 million 
				expenditures: $67.9 million (FY98/99 est.) 
				Faroe Islands
				revenues: $588 million 
				expenditures: $623 million (2005) 
				Fiji
				revenues: $1.363 billion 
				expenditures: $1.376 billion (2006) 
				Finland
				revenues: $66.48 billion 
				expenditures: $65.3 billion (2008) 
				France
				revenues: $1.439 trillion 
				expenditures: $1.525 trillion (2008 est.) 
				French Polynesia
				revenues: $865 million 
				expenditures: $644.1 million (1999) 
				Gabon
				revenues: $4.463 billion 
				expenditures: $2.746 billion (2008 est.) 
				Gambia, The
				revenues: $194.3 million 
				expenditures: $228.8 million (2008 est.) 
				Gaza Strip
				revenues: $1.149 billion 
				expenditures: $2.31 billion 
				note: includes West Bank (2006) 
				Georgia
				revenues: $3.778 billion 
				expenditures: $4.182 billion (2008 est.) 
				Germany
				revenues: $1.614 trillion 
				expenditures: $1.579 trillion (2008 est.) 
				Ghana
				revenues: $4.021 billion 
				expenditures: $5.521 billion (2008 est.) 
				Gibraltar
				revenues: $455.1 million 
				expenditures: $423.6 million (2005 est.) 
				Greece
				revenues: $132.4 billion 
				expenditures: $143.8 billion (2008 est.) 
				Greenland
				revenues: $1.36 billion 
				expenditures: $1.27 billion (2005) 
				Grenada
				revenues: $85.8 million 
				expenditures: $102.1 million (1997) 
				Guam
				revenues: $319.6 million 
				expenditures: $427.8 million (2002 est.) 
				Guatemala
				revenues: $4.944 billion 
				expenditures: $5.647 billion (2008 est.) 
				Guernsey
				revenues: $563.6 million 
				expenditures: $530.9 million (2005 est.) 
				Guinea
				revenues: $315 million 
				expenditures: $796.5 million (2008 est.) 
				Guinea-Bissau
				revenues: $NA 
				expenditures: $NA 
				Guyana
				revenues: $463.7 million 
				expenditures: $536 million (2008 est.) 
				Haiti
				revenues: $820.6 million 
				expenditures: $965.2 million (2008 est.) 
				Holy See (Vatican City)
				revenues: $310 million 
				expenditures: $307 million (2006) 
				Honduras
				revenues: $2.628 billion 
				expenditures: $3.183 billion; including capital expenditures of $106 million (2008 est.) 
				Hong Kong
				revenues: $36.62 billion 
				expenditures: $38.89 billion (2008 est.) 
				Hungary
				revenues: $76.2 billion 
				expenditures: $81.5 billion (2008 est.) 
				Iceland
				revenues: $7.582 billion 
				expenditures: $7.159 billion (2008 est.) 
				India
				revenues: $153.5 billion 
				expenditures: $205.3 billion (2008 est.) 
				Indonesia
				revenues: $90.17 billion 
				expenditures: $96.87 billion (2008 est.) 
				Iran
				revenues: $51 billion 
				expenditures: $103 billion (FY09/10 est.) 
				Iraq
				revenues: $42.4 billion 
				expenditures: $49.9 billion (FY08 est.) 
				Ireland
				revenues: $93.84 billion 
				expenditures: $110.8 billion (2008 est.) 
				Isle of Man
				revenues: $965 million 
				expenditures: $943 million (FY05/06 est.) 
				Israel
				revenues: $68.44 billion 
				expenditures: $70.06 billion (2008 est.) 
				Italy
				revenues: $1.139 trillion 
				expenditures: $1.203 trillion (2008 est.) 
				Jamaica
				revenues: $4.166 billion 
				expenditures: $4.838 billion (2008 est.) 
				Japan
				revenues: $1.672 trillion 
				expenditures: $1.823 trillion (2008 est.) 
				Jersey
				revenues: $829 million 
				expenditures: $851 million (2005) 
				Jordan
				revenues: $5.999 billion 
				expenditures: $7.87 billion (2008 est.) 
				Kazakhstan
				revenues: $29.64 billion 
				expenditures: $32.6 billion (2008 est.) 
				Kenya
				revenues: $6.617 billion 
				expenditures: $8.196 billion (2008 est.) 
				Kiribati
				revenues: $55.52 million 
				expenditures: $59.71 million (FY05) 
				Korea, North
				revenues: $2.88 billion 
				expenditures: $2.98 billion 
				Korea, South
				revenues: $232.2 billion 
				expenditures: $222.9 billion (2008 est.) 
				Kosovo
				revenues: $1.19 billion 
				expenditures: $1.22 billion (2007 est.) 
				Kuwait
				revenues: $113.3 billion 
				expenditures: $63.55 billion (2008 est.) 
				Kyrgyzstan
				revenues: $1.17 billion 
				expenditures: $1.192 billion (2008 est.) 
				Laos
				revenues: $809.6 million 
				expenditures: $954 million (2008 est.) 
				Latvia
				revenues: $12.33 billion 
				expenditures: $12.84 billion (2008 est.) 
				Lebanon
				revenues: $7 billion 
				expenditures: $10 billion (2008 est.) 
				Lesotho
				revenues: $523 million 
				expenditures: $479.5 million (2008 est.) 
				Liberia
				revenues: NA 
				expenditures: NA 
				Libya
				revenues: $56.35 billion 
				expenditures: $29.12 billion (2008 est.) 
				Liechtenstein
				revenues: $424.2 million 
				expenditures: $414.1 million (1998 est.) 
				Lithuania
				revenues: $15.4 billion 
				expenditures: $15.86 billion (2008 est.) 
				Luxembourg
				revenues: $22.25 billion 
				expenditures: $22.08 billion (2008 est.) 
				Macau
				revenues: $6.2 billion 
				expenditures: $2.9 billion (2008) 
				Macedonia
				revenues: $2.889 billion 
				expenditures: $2.985 billion (2008 est.) 
				Madagascar
				revenues: $1.688 billion 
				expenditures: $2.066 billion (2008 est.) 
				Malawi
				revenues: $1.227 billion 
				expenditures: $1.337 billion (2008 est.) 
				Malaysia
				revenues: $44.32 billion 
				expenditures: $55.01 billion (2008 est.) 
				Maldives
				revenues: $508 million (including foreign grants) 
				expenditures: $671 million (2006 est.) 
				Mali
				revenues: $1.5 billion 
				expenditures: $1.8 billion (2006 est.) 
				Malta
				revenues: $3.457 billion 
				expenditures: $3.653 billion (2008 est.) 
				Marshall Islands
				revenues: $123.3 million 
				expenditures: $1.213 billion (2008) 
				Mauritania
				revenues: $770 million 
				expenditures: $770 million (2007 est.) 
				Mauritius
				revenues: $1.866 billion 
				expenditures: $2.243 billion; including capital expenditures of $NA (2008 est.) 
				Mayotte
				revenues: $420 million 
				expenditures: $394 million (2005) 
				Mexico
				revenues: $256.7 billion 
				expenditures: $256.8 billion (2008 est.) 
				Micronesia, Federated States of
				revenues: $166 million ($69 million less grants) 
				expenditures: $152.7 million (FY07 est.) 
				Moldova
				revenues: $1.95 billion 
				expenditures: $2.01 billion (2008) 
				Monaco
				revenues: $863 million 
				expenditures: $920.6 million (2005 est.) 
				Mongolia
				revenues: $1.58 billion 
				expenditures: $1.497 billion (2007) 
				Montenegro
				revenues: NA 
				expenditures: NA 
				Montserrat
				revenues: $31.4 million 
				expenditures: $31.6 million (1997 est.) 
				Morocco
				revenues: $26.09 billion 
				expenditures: $28.41 billion (2008 est.) 
				Mozambique
				revenues: $2.786 billion 
				expenditures: $3.108 billion (2008 est.) 
				Namibia
				revenues: $2.668 billion 
				expenditures: $2.896 billion (2008 est.) 
				Nauru
				revenues: $13.5 million 
				expenditures: $13.5 million (2005) 
				Nepal
				revenues: $1.153 billion 
				expenditures: $1.927 billion (FY06/07) 
				Netherlands
				revenues: $408.5 billion 
				expenditures: $398.8 billion (2008 est.) 
				Netherlands Antilles
				revenues: $757.9 million 
				expenditures: $949.5 million (2004) 
				New Caledonia
				revenues: $996 million 
				expenditures: $1.072 billion (2001 est.) 
				New Zealand
				revenues: $55.1 billion 
				expenditures: $54.66 billion (2008 est.) 
				Nicaragua
				revenues: $1.271 billion 
				expenditures: $1.593 billion (2008 est.) 
				Niger
				revenues: $320 million (includes $134 million from foreign sources) 
				expenditures: $320 million (2002 est.) 
				Nigeria
				revenues: $29.49 billion 
				expenditures: $30.61 billion (2008 est.) 
				Niue
				revenues: $15.07 million 
				expenditures: $16.33 million (FY0405) 
				Norfolk Island
				revenues: $4.6 million 
				expenditures: $4.8 million (FY99/00) 
				Northern Mariana Islands
				revenues: $193 million 
				expenditures: $223 million (FY01/02 est.) 
				Norway
				revenues: $283.7 billion 
				expenditures: $197 billion (2008 est.) 
				Oman
				revenues: $14.6 billion 
				expenditures: $16.7 billion (2009 est.) 
				Pakistan
				revenues: $22.14 billion 
				expenditures: $32.09 billion (2008 est.) 
				Palau
				revenues: $114.8 million 
				expenditures: $99.5 million (2008 est.) 
				Panama
				revenues: $6.09 billion 
				expenditures: $6 billion (2008 est.) 
				Papua New Guinea
				revenues: $3.098 billion 
				expenditures: $2.949 billion (2008 est.) 
				Paraguay
				revenues: $2.939 billion 
				expenditures: $2.866 billion (2008 est.) 
				Peru
				revenues: $38.83 billion 
				expenditures: $35.5 billion (2008 est.) 
				Philippines
				revenues: $26.75 billion 
				expenditures: $28.2 billion (2008 est.) 
				Pitcairn Islands
				revenues: $746,000 
				expenditures: $1.028 million (FY04/05) 
				Poland
				revenues: $117 billion 
				expenditures: $127.3 billion (2008 est.) 
				Portugal
				revenues: $108.6 billion 
				expenditures: $114.7 billion (2008 est.) 
				Puerto Rico
				revenues: $6.7 billion 
				expenditures: $9.6 billion (FY99/00) 
				Qatar
				revenues: $40.36 billion 
				expenditures: $28.08 billion (2008 est.) 
				Romania
				revenues: $64.44 billion 
				expenditures: $71.16 billion (2008 est.) 
				Russia
				revenues: $383.5 billion 
				expenditures: $273.5 billion (2008 est.) 
				Rwanda
				revenues: $902.2 million 
				expenditures: $1.032 billion; including capital expenditures of $NA (2008 est.) 
				Saint Helena
				revenues: $12.33 million 
				expenditures: $30.28 million 
				note: revenue data reflect locally raised revenues only; the budget deficit is resolved by grant aid from the United Kingdom (FY06/07 est.) 
				Saint Kitts and Nevis
				revenues: $89.7 million 
				expenditures: $128.2 million (2003 est.) 
				Saint Lucia
				revenues: $141.2 million 
				expenditures: $146.7 million (2000 est.) 
				Saint Pierre and Miquelon
				revenues: $70 million 
				expenditures: $60 million (1996 est.) 
				Saint Vincent and the Grenadines
				revenues: $94.6 million 
				expenditures: $85.8 million (2000 est.) 
				Samoa
				revenues: $171.3 million 
				expenditures: $78.1 million (FY04/05 est.) 
				San Marino
				revenues: $690.6 million 
				expenditures: $652.9 million (2006) 
				Sao Tome and Principe
				revenues: $47.65 million 
				expenditures: $51.48 million (2008 est.) 
				Saudi Arabia
				revenues: $293 billion 
				expenditures: $136 billion (2008 est.) 
				Senegal
				revenues: $3.141 billion 
				expenditures: $3.799 billion (2008 est.) 
				Serbia
				revenues: $9.6 billion 
				expenditures: $9.8 billion (2007 est.) 
				Seychelles
				revenues: $318.1 million 
				expenditures: $324.6 million (2008 est.) 
				Sierra Leone
				revenues: $96 million 
				expenditures: $351 million (2000 est.) 
				Singapore
				revenues: $28.6 billion 
				expenditures: $27.5 billion (2008 est.) 
				Slovakia
				revenues: $44.86 billion 
				expenditures: $46.96 billion (2008 est.) 
				Slovenia
				revenues: $23.16 billion 
				expenditures: $22.93 billion (2008 est.) 
				Solomon Islands
				revenues: $49.7 million 
				expenditures: $75.1 million (2003) 
				Somalia
				revenues: $NA 
				expenditures: $NA 
				South Africa
				revenues: $83.85 billion 
				expenditures: $83.3 billion (2008 est.) 
				Spain
				revenues: $443.3 billion 
				expenditures: $535.6 billion (2008 est.) 
				Sri Lanka
				revenues: $7.8 billion 
				expenditures: $11 billion (2009 est.) 
				Sudan
				revenues: $11.84 billion 
				expenditures: $12.95 billion (2008 est.) 
				Suriname
				revenues: $392.6 million 
				expenditures: $425.9 million (2004) 
				Svalbard
				revenues: $25.07 million 
				expenditures: $NA (2004 est.) 
				Swaziland
				revenues: $1.215 billion 
				expenditures: $1.155 billion (2008 est.) 
				Sweden
				revenues: $270.5 billion 
				expenditures: $258.6 billion (2008 est.) 
				Switzerland
				revenues: $173.6 billion 
				expenditures: $168.2 billion (2008 est.) 
				Syria
				revenues: $10.9 billion 
				expenditures: $13.77 billion (2008 est.) 
				Taiwan
				revenues: $50.91 billion 
				expenditures: $54.7 billion (2008 est.) 
				Tajikistan
				revenues: $872.3 million 
				expenditures: $886.8 million (2008 est.) 
				Tanzania
				revenues: $4.216 billion 
				expenditures: $4.658 billion (2008 est.) 
				Thailand
				revenues: $45.3 billion 
				expenditures: $55.76 billion (2008 est.) 
				Timor-Leste
				revenues: $733 million 
				expenditures: $309 million 
				note: the government in 2008 moved to a fiscal year calendar; it passed a supplementary spending package to cover the latter half of 2008 (FY06/07 est.) 
				Togo
				revenues: $551.5 million 
				expenditures: $620.1 million (2008 est.) 
				Tokelau
				revenues: $430,800 
				expenditures: $2.8 million (1987 est.) 
				Tonga
				revenues: $80.48 million 
				expenditures: $109.8 million (FY07/08) 
				Trinidad and Tobago
				revenues: $8.317 billion 
				expenditures: $8.311 billion (2008 est.) 
				Tunisia
				revenues: $9.652 billion 
				expenditures: $11.03 billion (2008 est.) 
				Turkey
				revenues: $164.6 billion 
				expenditures: $176.3 billion (2008 est.) 
				Turkmenistan
				revenues: $1.393 billion 
				expenditures: $1.42 billion (2008 est.) 
				Turks and Caicos Islands
				revenues: $47 million 
				expenditures: $33.6 million (1997-98 est.) 
				Tuvalu
				revenues: $21.54 million 
				expenditures: $23.05 million (2006) 
				Uganda
				revenues: $2.72 billion 
				expenditures: $3.05 billion; including capital expenditures of $NA (2008 est.) 
				Ukraine
				revenues: $65.02 billion 
				expenditures: $68.48 billion; note - this is the planned, consolidated budget (2008 est.) 
				United Arab Emirates
				revenues: $83.15 billion 
				expenditures: $48.3 billion (2008 est.) 
				United Kingdom
				revenues: $1.107 trillion 
				expenditures: $1.242 trillion (2008 est.) 
				United States
				revenues: $2.524 trillion 
				expenditures: $2.979 trillion (2008 est.) 
				Uruguay
				revenues: $8.204 billion 
				expenditures: $8.526 billion (2008 est.) 
				Uzbekistan
				revenues: $8.005 billion 
				expenditures: $8.127 billion (2008 est.) 
				Vanuatu
				revenues: $78.7 million 
				expenditures: $72.23 million (2005) 
				Venezuela
				revenues: $106.2 billion 
				expenditures: $100.8 billion (2008 est.) 
				Vietnam
				revenues: $22.39 billion 
				expenditures: $24.19 billion (2008 est.) 
				Virgin Islands
				revenues: $NA 
				expenditures: $NA 
				Wallis and Futuna
				revenues: $29,730 
				expenditures: $31,330 (2004 est.) 
				West Bank
				revenues: $1.149 billion 
				expenditures: $2.31 billion 
				note: includes Gaza Strip (2006) 
				Western Sahara
				revenues: $NA 
				expenditures: $NA 
				Yemen
				revenues: $9.097 billion 
				expenditures: $10.55 billion (2008 est.) 
				Zambia
				revenues: $3.777 billion 
				expenditures: $4.104 billion (2008 est.) 
				Zimbabwe
				revenues: $153,700 
				expenditures: $179,300 (2008 est.)  		
				This page was last updated on 19 March 2009
&nbsp; 
CIA - The World Factbook -- Field Listing - Map references
&nbsp; 
				    &nbsp; 
                    Field Listing - Map references
         Home 
          &nbsp;Reference Maps 
          &nbsp;Appendixes 
			Country
			Map references 	
				Afghanistan
			Asia 
				Akrotiri
			Middle East 
				Albania
			Europe 
				Algeria
			Africa 
				American Samoa
			Oceania 
				Andorra
			Europe 
				Angola
			Africa 
				Anguilla
			Central America and the Caribbean 
				Antarctica
			Antarctic Region 
				Antigua and Barbuda
			Central America and the Caribbean 
				Arctic Ocean
			Arctic Region 
				Argentina
			South America 
				Armenia
			Asia 
				Aruba
			Central America and the Caribbean 
				Ashmore and Cartier Islands
			Southeast Asia 
				Atlantic Ocean
			Political Map of the World 
				Australia
			Oceania 
				Austria
			Europe 
				Azerbaijan
			Asia 
				Bahamas, The
			Central America and the Caribbean 
				Bahrain
			Middle East 
				Bangladesh
			Asia 
				Barbados
			Central America and the Caribbean 
				Belarus
			Europe 
				Belgium
			Europe 
				Belize
			Central America and the Caribbean 
				Benin
			Africa 
				Bermuda
			North America 
				Bhutan
			Asia 
				Bolivia
			South America 
				Bosnia and Herzegovina
			Europe 
				Botswana
			Africa 
				Bouvet Island
			Antarctic Region 
				Brazil
			South America 
				British Indian Ocean Territory
			Political Map of the World 
				British Virgin Islands
			Central America and the Caribbean 
				Brunei
			Southeast Asia 
				Bulgaria
			Europe 
				Burkina Faso
			Africa 
				Burma
			Southeast Asia 
				Burundi
			Africa 
				Cambodia
			Southeast Asia 
				Cameroon
			Africa 
				Canada
			North America 
				Cape Verde
			Political Map of the World 
				Cayman Islands
			Central America and the Caribbean 
				Central African Republic
			Africa 
				Chad
			Africa 
				Chile
			South America 
				China
			Asia 
				Christmas Island
			Southeast Asia 
				Clipperton Island
			Political Map of the World 
				Cocos (Keeling) Islands
			Southeast Asia 
				Colombia
			South America 
				Comoros
			Africa 
				Congo, Democratic Republic of the
			Africa 
				Congo, Republic of the
			Africa 
				Cook Islands
			Oceania 
				Coral Sea Islands
			Oceania 
				Costa Rica
			Central America and the Caribbean 
				Cote d'Ivoire
			Africa 
				Croatia
			Europe 
				Cuba
			Central America and the Caribbean 
				Cyprus
			Middle East 
				Czech Republic
			Europe 
				Denmark
			Europe 
				Dhekelia
			Middle East 
				Djibouti
			Africa 
				Dominica
			Central America and the Caribbean 
				Dominican Republic
			Central America and the Caribbean 
				Ecuador
			South America 
				Egypt
			Africa 
				El Salvador
			Central America and the Caribbean 
				Equatorial Guinea
			Africa 
				Eritrea
			Africa 
				Estonia
			Europe 
				Ethiopia
			Africa 
				European Union
			Europe 
				Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas)
			South America 
				Faroe Islands
			Europe 
				Fiji
			Oceania 
				Finland
			Europe 
				France
				metropolitan France: Europe 
				French Guiana: South America 
				Guadeloupe: Central America and the Caribbean 
				Martinique: Central America and the Caribbean 
				Reunion: World 
				French Polynesia
			Oceania 
				French Southern and Antarctic Lands
			Antarctic Region, Africa 
				Gabon
			Africa 
				Gambia, The
			Africa 
				Gaza Strip
			Middle East 
				Georgia
			Asia 
				Germany
			Europe 
				Ghana
			Africa 
				Gibraltar
			Europe 
				Greece
			Europe 
				Greenland
			Arctic Region 
				Grenada
			Central America and the Caribbean 
				Guam
			Oceania 
				Guatemala
			Central America and the Caribbean 
				Guernsey
			Europe 
				Guinea
			Africa 
				Guinea-Bissau
			Africa 
				Guyana
			South America 
				Haiti
			Central America and the Caribbean 
				Heard Island and McDonald Islands
			Antarctic Region 
				Holy See (Vatican City)
			Europe 
				Honduras
			Central America and the Caribbean 
				Hong Kong
			Southeast Asia 
				Hungary
			Europe 
				Iceland
			Arctic Region 
				India
			Asia 
				Indian Ocean
			Political Map of the World 
				Indonesia
			Southeast Asia 
				Iran
			Middle East 
				Iraq
			Middle East 
				Ireland
			Europe 
				Isle of Man
			Europe 
				Israel
			Middle East 
				Italy
			Europe 
				Jamaica
			Central America and the Caribbean 
				Jan Mayen
			Arctic Region 
				Japan
			Asia 
				Jersey
			Europe 
				Jordan
			Middle East 
				Kazakhstan
			Asia 
				Kenya
			Africa 
				Kiribati
			Oceania 
				Korea, North
			Asia 
				Korea, South
			Asia 
				Kosovo
			Europe 
				Kuwait
			Middle East 
				Kyrgyzstan
			Asia 
				Laos
			Southeast Asia 
				Latvia
			Europe 
				Lebanon
			Middle East 
				Lesotho
			Africa 
				Liberia
			Africa 
				Libya
			Africa 
				Liechtenstein
			Europe 
				Lithuania
			Europe 
				Luxembourg
			Europe 
				Macau
			Southeast Asia 
				Macedonia
			Europe 
				Madagascar
			Africa 
				Malawi
			Africa 
				Malaysia
			Southeast Asia 
				Maldives
			Asia 
				Mali
			Africa 
				Malta
			Europe 
				Marshall Islands
			Oceania 
				Mauritania
			Africa 
				Mauritius
			Political Map of the World 
				Mayotte
			Africa 
				Mexico
			North America 
				Micronesia, Federated States of
			Oceania 
				Moldova
			Europe 
				Monaco
			Europe 
				Mongolia
			Asia 
				Montenegro
			Europe 
				Montserrat
			Central America and the Caribbean 
				Morocco
			Africa 
				Mozambique
			Africa 
				Namibia
			Africa 
				Nauru
			Oceania 
				Navassa Island
			Central America and the Caribbean 
				Nepal
			Asia 
				Netherlands
			Europe 
				Netherlands Antilles
			Central America and the Caribbean 
				New Caledonia
			Oceania 
				New Zealand
			Oceania 
				Nicaragua
			Central America and the Caribbean 
				Niger
			Africa 
				Nigeria
			Africa 
				Niue
			Oceania 
				Norfolk Island
			Oceania 
				Northern Mariana Islands
			Oceania 
				Norway
			Europe 
				Oman
			Middle East 
				Pacific Ocean
			Political Map of the World 
				Pakistan
			Asia 
				Palau
			Oceania 
				Panama
			Central America and the Caribbean 
				Papua New Guinea
			Oceania 
				Paracel Islands
			Southeast Asia 
				Paraguay
			South America 
				Peru
			South America 
				Philippines
			Southeast Asia 
				Pitcairn Islands
			Oceania 
				Poland
			Europe 
				Portugal
			Europe 
				Puerto Rico
			Central America and the Caribbean 
				Qatar
			Middle East 
				Romania
			Europe 
				Russia
			Asia 
				Rwanda
			Africa 
				Saint Barthelemy
			Central America and the Caribbean 
				Saint Helena
			Africa 
				Saint Kitts and Nevis
			Central America and the Caribbean 
				Saint Lucia
			Central America and the Caribbean 
				Saint Martin
			Central America and the Caribbean 
				Saint Pierre and Miquelon
			North America 
				Saint Vincent and the Grenadines
			Central America and the Caribbean 
				Samoa
			Oceania 
				San Marino
			Europe 
				Sao Tome and Principe
			Africa 
				Saudi Arabia
			Middle East 
				Senegal
			Africa 
				Serbia
			Europe 
				Seychelles
			Africa 
				Sierra Leone
			Africa 
				Singapore
			Southeast Asia 
				Slovakia
			Europe 
				Slovenia
			Europe 
				Solomon Islands
			Oceania 
				Somalia
			Africa 
				South Africa
			Africa 
				South Georgia and the South Sandwich Islands
			Antarctic Region 
				Southern Ocean
			Antarctic Region 
				Spain
			Europe 
				Spratly Islands
			Southeast Asia 
				Sri Lanka
			Asia 
				Sudan
			Africa 
				Suriname
			South America 
				Svalbard
			Arctic Region 
				Swaziland
			Africa 
				Sweden
			Europe 
				Switzerland
			Europe 
				Syria
			Middle East 
				Taiwan
			Southeast Asia 
				Tajikistan
			Asia 
				Tanzania
			Africa 
				Thailand
			Southeast Asia 
				Timor-Leste
			Southeast Asia 
				Togo
			Africa 
				Tokelau
			Oceania 
				Tonga
			Oceania 
				Trinidad and Tobago
			Central America and the Caribbean 
				Tunisia
			Africa 
				Turkey
			Middle East 
				Turkmenistan
			Asia 
				Turks and Caicos Islands
			Central America and the Caribbean 
				Tuvalu
			Oceania 
				Uganda
			Africa 
				Ukraine
			Asia, Europe 
				United Arab Emirates
			Middle East 
				United Kingdom
			Europe 
				United States
			North America 
				United States Pacific Island Wildlife Refuges
			Oceania 
				Uruguay
			South America 
				Uzbekistan
			Asia 
				Vanuatu
			Oceania 
				Venezuela
			South America 
				Vietnam
			Southeast Asia 
				Virgin Islands
			Central America and the Caribbean 
				Wake Island
			Oceania 
				Wallis and Futuna
			Oceania 
				West Bank
			Middle East 
				Western Sahara
			Africa 
				World
			Physical Map of the World, Political Map of the World, Standard Time Zones of the World 
				Yemen
			Middle East 
				Zambia
			Africa 
				Zimbabwe
			Africa  		
				This page was last updated on 19 March 2009
&nbsp; 
CIA - The World Factbook -- Field Listing - Internet users
&nbsp; 
				    &nbsp; 
                    Field Listing - Internet users
         Home 
          &nbsp;Reference Maps 
          &nbsp;Appendixes 
          		&nbsp;Rank Order List
			Country
			Internet users 	
				Afghanistan
				Albania
				Algeria
			3.5 million (2007) 
				American Samoa
			NA 
				Andorra
				Angola
				Anguilla
				Antigua and Barbuda
				Argentina
			9.309 million (2007) 
				Armenia
				Aruba
				Australia
			11.24 million (2007) 
				Austria
			4.277 million (2007) 
				Azerbaijan
			1.036 million (2007) 
				Bahamas, The
				Bahrain
				Bangladesh
				Barbados
				Belarus
			6 million (2007) 
				Belgium
			5.22 million (2007) 
				Belize
				Benin
				Bermuda
				Bhutan
				Bolivia
			1 million (2007) 
				Bosnia and Herzegovina
			1.055 million (2007) 
				Botswana
				Brazil
			50 million (2007) 
				British Virgin Islands
				Brunei
				Bulgaria
			1.899 million (2007) 
				Burkina Faso
				Burma
				Burundi
				Cambodia
				Cameroon
				Canada
			28 million (2007) 
				Cape Verde
				Cayman Islands
				Central African Republic
				Chad
				Chile
			5.57 million (2007) 
				China
			253 million (2008) 
				Christmas Island
				Cocos (Keeling) Islands
			NA 
				Colombia
			12.1 million (2007) 
				Comoros
				Congo, Democratic Republic of the
				Congo, Republic of the
				Cook Islands
				Costa Rica
			1.5 million (2007) 
				Cote d'Ivoire
				Croatia
			1.995 million (2007) 
				Cuba
			1.31 million 
				note: private citizens are prohibited from buying computers or accessing the Internet without special authorization; foreigners may access the Internet in large hotels but are subject to firewalls; some Cubans buy illegal passwords on the black market or take advantage of public outlets to access limited email and the government-controlled "intranet" (2007) 
				Cyprus
				Czech Republic
			4.4 million (2007) 
				Denmark
			3.5 million (2007) 
				Djibouti
				Dominica
				Dominican Republic
			1.677 million (2007) 
				Ecuador
			1.549 million (2006) 
				Egypt
			8.62 million (2007) 
				El Salvador
				Equatorial Guinea
				Eritrea
				Estonia
				Ethiopia
				European Union
			247 million (2006) 
				Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas)
				Faroe Islands
				Fiji
				Finland
			3.6 million (2007) 
				France
			31.295 million; 30.838 million (metropolitan France) (2007) 
				French Polynesia
				Gabon
				Gambia, The
				Gaza Strip
			355,500 (includes West Bank) (2007) 
				Georgia
				Germany
			42.5 million (2007) 
				Ghana
				Gibraltar
				Greece
			2.54 million (2007) 
				Greenland
				Grenada
				Guam
				Guatemala
			1.32 million (2006) 
				Guernsey
				Guinea
				Guinea-Bissau
				Guyana
				Haiti
			1 million (2007) 
				Holy See (Vatican City)
				Honduras
				Hong Kong
			3.961 million (2007) 
				Hungary
			4.2 million (2007) 
				Iceland
				India
			80 million (2007) 
				Indonesia
			13 million (2007) 
				Iran
			23 million (2007) 
				Iraq
				Ireland
			1.708 million (2007) 
				Isle of Man
			NA 
				Israel
			2 million (2007) 
				Italy
			32 million (2007) 
				Jamaica
			1.5 million (2007) 
				Japan
			88.11 million (2007) 
				Jersey
				Jordan
			1.127 million (2007) 
				Kazakhstan
			1.901 million (2006) 
				Kenya
			3 million (2007) 
				Kiribati
				Korea, North
			NA 
				Korea, South
			35.59 million (2007) 
				Kuwait
				Kyrgyzstan
				Laos
				Latvia
			1.177 million (2007) 
				Lebanon
				Lesotho
				Liberia
				Libya
				Liechtenstein
				Lithuania
			1.333 million (2007) 
				Luxembourg
				Macau
				Macedonia
				Madagascar
				Malawi
				Malaysia
			15.868 million (2007) 
				Maldives
				Mali
				Malta
				Marshall Islands
				Mauritania
				Mauritius
				Mayotte
			NA 
				Mexico
			22.812 million (2007) 
				Micronesia, Federated States of
				Moldova
				Monaco
				Mongolia
				Montenegro
				Montserrat
			NA 
				Morocco
			7.3 million (2007) 
				Mozambique
				Namibia
				Nauru
				Nepal
				Netherlands
			15 million (2007) 
				Netherlands Antilles
				New Caledonia
				New Zealand
			3.36 million (2007) 
				Nicaragua
				Niger
				Nigeria
			10 million (2007) 
				Niue
				Norfolk Island
			700 (2002 est.) 
				Northern Mariana Islands
				Norway
			3.8 million (2007) 
				Oman
				Pakistan
			17.5 million (2007) 
				Panama
				Papua New Guinea
				Paraguay
				Peru
			7.636 million (2007) 
				Philippines
			5.3 million (2007) 
				Pitcairn Islands
			NA 
				Poland
			16 million (2007) 
				Portugal
			3.549 million (2007) 
				Puerto Rico
			1 million (2007) 
				Qatar
				Romania
			12 million (2007) 
				Russia
			30 million (2007) 
				Rwanda
				Saint Helena
			1,000; note - includes Ascension Island (2003) 
				Saint Kitts and Nevis
				Saint Lucia
				Saint Pierre and Miquelon
			NA 
				Saint Vincent and the Grenadines
				Samoa
				San Marino
				Sao Tome and Principe
				Saudi Arabia
			6.2 million (2007) 
				Senegal
				Serbia
			1.5 million (2007) 
				Seychelles
				Sierra Leone
				Singapore
			3.105 million (2007) 
				Slovakia
			2.35 million (2007) 
				Slovenia
			1.3 million (2007) 
				Solomon Islands
				Somalia
				South Africa
			5.1 million (2005) 
				Spain
			19.69 million (2007) 
				Sri Lanka
				Sudan
			1.5 million (2007) 
				Suriname
				Svalbard
			NA 
				Swaziland
				Sweden
			7 million (2007) 
				Switzerland
			4.61 million (2007) 
				Syria
			3.47 million (2007) 
				Taiwan
			14.76 million (2007) 
				Tajikistan
				Tanzania
				Thailand
			13.416 million (2007) 
				Timor-Leste
				Togo
				Tokelau
			NA 
				Tonga
				Trinidad and Tobago
				Tunisia
			1.722 million (2007) 
				Turkey
			13.15 million (2006) 
				Turkmenistan
				Turks and Caicos Islands
			NA 
				Tuvalu
				Uganda
			2 million (2007) 
				Ukraine
			10 million (2007) 
				United Arab Emirates
			2.3 million (2007) 
				United Kingdom
			40.2 million (2007) 
				United States
			223 million (2008) 
				Uruguay
				Uzbekistan
			2.1 million (2008) 
				Vanuatu
				Venezuela
			5.72 million (2007) 
				Vietnam
			17.87 million (2007) 
				Virgin Islands
				Wallis and Futuna
				West Bank
			355,500 (includes Gaza Strip) (2007) 
				Western Sahara
			NA 
				World
				Yemen
				Zambia
				Zimbabwe
			1.351 million (2007)  		
				This page was last updated on 19 March 2009
&nbsp; 
CIA - The World Factbook -- Field Listing - Industrial production growth rate
&nbsp; 
				    &nbsp; 
                    Field Listing - Industrial production growth rate
         Home 
          &nbsp;Reference Maps 
          &nbsp;Appendixes 
          		&nbsp;Rank Order List
			Country
			Industrial production growth rate (%) 
				Afghanistan
			NA% 
				Albania
			3% (2008 est.) 
				Algeria
			4.5% (2008 est.) 
				American Samoa
			NA% 
				Andorra
			NA% 
				Angola
			12% (2008 est.) 
				Anguilla
			3.1% (1997 est.) 
				Antigua and Barbuda
			NA% 
				Argentina
			6.5% (2008 est.) 
				Armenia
			3% (2008 est.) 
				Aruba
			NA% 
				Australia
			3.5% (2008 est.) 
				Austria
			4.4% (2008 est.) 
				Azerbaijan
			12% (2008 est.) 
				Bahamas, The
			NA% 
				Bahrain
			5.1% (2008 est.) 
				Bangladesh
			6.9% (2008 est.) 
				Barbados
			-3.2% (2000 est.) 
				Belarus
			11.5% (2008 est.) 
				Belgium
			2% (2008 est.) 
				Belize
			1.8% (2008 est.) 
				Benin
			5.5% (2008 est.) 
				Bermuda
			NA% 
				Bhutan
			9.3% (1996 est.) 
				Bolivia
			7.4% (2008 est.) 
				Bosnia and Herzegovina
			6.3% (2008 est.) 
				Botswana
			2.4% (2008 est.) 
				Brazil
			4.4% (2008 est.) 
				British Virgin Islands
			NA% 
				Brunei
			1.8% (2006 est.) 
				Bulgaria
				Burkina Faso
			4.5% (2008 est.) 
				Burma
			7.1% (2008 est.) 
				Burundi
			8% (2008 est.) 
				Cambodia
			8.4% (2008 est.) 
				Cameroon
			4.7% (2008 est.) 
				Canada
			-1% (2008 est.) 
				Cape Verde
			8% (2008 est.) 
				Cayman Islands
			NA% 
				Central African Republic
				Chad
			2% (2008 est.) 
				Chile
			1.7% (2008 est.) 
				China
			10.7% (2008 est.) 
				Colombia
			2.5% (2008 est.) 
				Comoros
			-2% (1999 est.) 
				Congo, Democratic Republic of the
			NA% 
				Congo, Republic of the
			15% (2008 est.) 
				Cook Islands
				Costa Rica
			-0.8% (2008 est.) 
				Cote d'Ivoire
			5% (2008 est.) 
				Croatia
			2.9% (2008 est.) 
				Cuba
			6% (2008 est.) 
				Cyprus
			2.8% (2008 est.) 
				Czech Republic
			7% (2008 est.) 
				Denmark
			0.4% (2008 est.) 
				Djibouti
			3% (1996 est.) 
				Dominica
			-10% (1997 est.) 
				Dominican Republic
			3.2% (2008 est.) 
				Ecuador
			2% (2008 est.) 
				Egypt
			7.7% (2008 est.) 
				El Salvador
			3.8% (2008 est.) 
				Equatorial Guinea
			12.5% (2008 est.) 
				Eritrea
			2% (2008 est.) 
				Estonia
			2.5% (2008 est.) 
				Ethiopia
			6% (2008 est.) 
				European Union
			-0.3% (2008 est.) 
				Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas)
			NA% 
				Faroe Islands
			8% (1999 est.) 
				Fiji
			NA% 
				Finland
			4% (2008 est.) 
				France
			-8% (2008 est.) 
				French Polynesia
			NA% 
				Gabon
			1.5% (2008 est.) 
				Gambia, The
			5.9% (2008 est.) 
				Gaza Strip
			2.4% (includes West Bank) (2005) 
				Georgia
			6% (2008 est.) 
				Germany
			2.2% (2008 est.) 
				Ghana
			6.5% (2008 est.) 
				Gibraltar
			NA% 
				Greece
			3.2% (2008 est.) 
				Greenland
			NA% 
				Grenada
			0.7% (1997 est.) 
				Guam
			NA% 
				Guatemala
			3.5% (2008 est.) 
				Guernsey
			NA% 
				Guinea
			8% (2008 est.) 
				Guinea-Bissau
			4.7% (2003 est.) 
				Guyana
			1% (2008 est.) 
				Haiti
			1.2% (2008 est.) 
				Honduras
			4% (2008 est.) 
				Hong Kong
			0% (2008 est.) 
				Hungary
			0.4% (2008 est.) 
				Iceland
			5.5% (2008 est.) 
				India
			4.8% (2008 est.) 
				Indonesia
			2.8% (2008 est.) 
				Iran
			4.5% excluding oil (2008 est.) 
				Iraq
			10.5% (2008 est.) 
				Ireland
			5% (2007 est.) 
				Isle of Man
			3.2% (FY96/97) 
				Israel
			4.1% (2008 est.) 
				Italy
			-0.2% (2008 est.) 
				Jamaica
			1.5% (2008 est.) 
				Japan
			0.5% (2008 est.) 
				Jersey
			NA% 
				Jordan
			1.8% (2008 est.) 
				Kazakhstan
			0.7% (2008 est.) 
				Kenya
			3.6% (2008 est.) 
				Kiribati
			0.7% (1991 est.) 
				Korea, North
			NA% 
				Korea, South
			4.5% (2008 est.) 
				Kuwait
			8% (2008 est.) 
				Kyrgyzstan
			4.3% (2008 est.) 
				Laos
			11% (2008 est.) 
				Latvia
			-3.2% (2008 est.) 
				Lebanon
			NA% 
				Lesotho
			12% (2008 est.) 
				Liberia
			NA% 
				Libya
			5.8% (2008 est.) 
				Liechtenstein
			NA% 
				Lithuania
			4.6% (2008 est.) 
				Luxembourg
			1.7% (2007 est.) 
				Macau
			NA 
				Macedonia
			1.8% (2008 est.) 
				Madagascar
			8% (2008 est.) 
				Malawi
			6% (2008 est.) 
				Malaysia
			4% (2008 est.) 
				Maldives
			-0.9% (2004 est.) 
				Mali
			NA% 
				Malta
			NA% 
				Marshall Islands
			NA% 
				Mauritania
			2% (2000 est.) 
				Mauritius
			4.5% (2008 est.) 
				Mayotte
			NA% 
				Mexico
			0% (2008 est.) 
				Micronesia, Federated States of
			NA% 
				Moldova
			6% (2008 est.) 
				Monaco
			NA% 
				Mongolia
			3% (2006 est.) 
				Montserrat
			NA% 
				Morocco
			5.8% (2008 est.) 
				Mozambique
			9% (2008 est.) 
				Namibia
			6.5% (2008 est.) 
				Nauru
			NA% 
				Nepal
			2.2% (FY05/06) 
				Netherlands
			2.1% (2008 est.) 
				Netherlands Antilles
			NA% 
				New Caledonia
				New Zealand
			-1.2% (2008 est.) 
				Nicaragua
			3% (2008 est.) 
				Niger
			5.1% (2003 est.) 
				Nigeria
			2.8% (2008 est.) 
				Niue
			NA% 
				Northern Mariana Islands
			NA% 
				Norway
			0.2% (2008 est.) 
				Oman
			3.4% (2008 est.) 
				Pakistan
			4.6% (2008 est.) 
				Palau
			NA% 
				Panama
			6.6% (2008 est.) 
				Papua New Guinea
			6.3% (2008 est.) 
				Paraguay
			2.5% (2008 est.) 
				Peru
			4.5% (2008 est.) 
				Philippines
			5% (2008 est.) 
				Poland
			6% (2008 est.) 
				Portugal
			1% (2008 est.) 
				Puerto Rico
			NA% 
				Qatar
			12.6% (2008 est.) 
				Romania
			8% (2008 est.) 
				Russia
			1.9% (2008 est.) 
				Rwanda
			8% (2008 est.) 
				Saint Helena
			NA% 
				Saint Kitts and Nevis
			NA% 
				Saint Lucia
			-8.9% (1997 est.) 
				Saint Pierre and Miquelon
			NA% 
				Saint Vincent and the Grenadines
			-0.9% (1997 est.) 
				Samoa
				San Marino
				Sao Tome and Principe
			9.5% (2008 est.) 
				Saudi Arabia
			4.5% (2008 est.) 
				Senegal
			5% (2008 est.) 
				Serbia
			1.8% (2007 est.) 
				Seychelles
			4% (2008 est.) 
				Sierra Leone
			NA% 
				Singapore
			-4.1% (2008 est.) 
				Slovakia
			6.5% (2008 est.) 
				Slovenia
			4.5% (2008 est.) 
				Solomon Islands
			NA% 
				Somalia
			NA% 
				South Africa
			3.8% (2008 est.) 
				Spain
				Sri Lanka
			6.2% (2008 est.) 
				Sudan
			-4% (2008 est.) 
				Suriname
			6.5% (1994 est.) 
				Swaziland
			1.1% (2008 est.) 
				Sweden
			1.1% (2008 est.) 
				Switzerland
			6.5% (2006 est.) 
				Syria
			3.2% (2008 est.) 
				Taiwan
			-2% (2008 est.) 
				Tajikistan
			2% (2008 est.) 
				Tanzania
			10% (2008 est.) 
				Thailand
			8% (2008 est.) 
				Timor-Leste
			8.5% (2004 est.) 
				Togo
			3% (2008 est.) 
				Tonga
			1% (2003 est.) 
				Trinidad and Tobago
			4.4% (2008 est.) 
				Tunisia
			4.5% (2008 est.) 
				Turkey
			4% (2008 est.) 
				Turkmenistan
			-0.1% (2008 est.) 
				Turks and Caicos Islands
			NA% 
				Tuvalu
			NA% 
				Uganda
			7% (2008 est.) 
				Ukraine
			5% (2008 est.) 
				United Arab Emirates
			7.7% (2008 est.) 
				United Kingdom
			-0.1% (2008 est.) 
				United States
			0.2% (2008 est.) 
				Uruguay
			14.1% (2008 est.) 
				Uzbekistan
			11.2% (2008 est.) 
				Vanuatu
			1% (1997 est.) 
				Venezuela
			-3.3% (2008 est.) 
				Vietnam
			7% (2008 est.) 
				Virgin Islands
			NA% 
				Wallis and Futuna
			NA% 
				West Bank
			2.4% (includes Gaza Strip) (2005) 
				Western Sahara
			NA% 
				World
			2.2% (2008 est.) 
				Yemen
			2.5% (2008 est.) 
				Zambia
			7% (2008 est.) 
				Zimbabwe
			-6% (2008 est.)  		
				This page was last updated on 19 March 2009
&nbsp; 
CIA - The World Factbook -- Field Listing - Television broadcast stations
&nbsp; 
				    &nbsp; 
                    Field Listing - Television broadcast stations
         Home 
          &nbsp;Reference Maps 
          &nbsp;Appendixes 
			Country
			Television broadcast stations 	
				Afghanistan
			at least 7 (1 government-run central television station in Kabul and regional stations in 6 of the 34 provinces) (2006) 
				Akrotiri
			0 (British Forces Broadcasting Service (BFBS) provides multi-channel satellite service to Akrotiri, Dhekelia, and Nicosia) (2006) 
				Albania
			65 (3 national, 62 local); 2 cable networks (2005) 
				Algeria
			46 (plus 216 repeaters) (1995) 
				American Samoa
				Andorra
				Angola
				Anguilla
				Antarctica
			1 (cable system with 6 channels; American Forces Antarctic Network-McMurdo - information for US bases only) (2002) 
				Antigua and Barbuda
				Argentina
			42 (plus 444 repeaters) (1997) 
				Armenia
			48 (private television stations alongside 2 public networks; major Russian channels widely available) (2006) 
				Aruba
				Australia
				Austria
			10 (plus more than 1,000 repeaters) (2001) 
				Azerbaijan
				Bahamas, The
				Bahrain
				Bangladesh
				Barbados
			1 (plus 2 cable channels) (2004) 
				Belarus
			47 (plus 27 repeaters) (1995) 
				Belgium
			25 (plus 10 repeaters) (1997) 
				Belize
				Benin
				Bermuda
				Bhutan
				Bolivia
				Bosnia and Herzegovina
			33 (plus 277 repeaters) (September 1995) 
				Botswana
			2 (1 state-owned, 1 private) 
				Brazil
				British Indian Ocean Territory
				British Virgin Islands
			1 (plus 1 cable company) (1997) 
				Brunei
			4 (includes 2 UHF stations broadcasting a subscription service) (2006) 
				Bulgaria
			39 (plus 1,242 repeaters) (2001) 
				Burkina Faso
			3 (1 national, 2 private) 
				Burma
				Burundi
				Cambodia
			8 (including 2 TV relay stations with French and Vietnamese broadcasts); excludes 18 regional relay stations (2008) 
				Cameroon
				Canada
			80 (plus many repeaters) (1997) 
				Cape Verde
			1 (plus 7 repeaters) (2001) 
				Cayman Islands
			4 with cable system (2004) 
				Central African Republic
				Chad
				Chile
			63 (plus 121 repeaters) (1997) 
				China
			3,240 (of which 209 are operated by China Central Television, 31 are provincial TV stations, and nearly 3,000 are local city stations) (1997) 
				Christmas Island
			0 (TV broadcasts received via satellite from mainland Australia) (2006) 
				Cocos (Keeling) Islands
				Colombia
				Comoros
			NA 
				Congo, Democratic Republic of the
				Congo, Republic of the
				Cook Islands
			1 (outer islands receive satellite broadcasts) (2004) 
				Costa Rica
			20 (plus 43 repeaters) (2002) 
				Cote d'Ivoire
				Croatia
			36 (plus 321 repeaters) (1995) 
				Cuba
				Cyprus
				area under government control: 8 
				area administered by Turkish Cypriots: 2 (plus 4 relay) (2004) 
				Czech Republic
				Denmark
				Dhekelia
			0 (British Forces Broadcasting Service (BFBS) provides multi-channel satellite service to Akrotiri, Dhekelia, and Nicosia) (2006) 
				Djibouti
				Dominica
				Dominican Republic
				Ecuador
			7 (plus 14 repeaters) (2000) 
				Egypt
			98 (September 1995) 
				El Salvador
				Equatorial Guinea
				Eritrea
				Estonia
				Ethiopia
			1 (plus 24 repeaters) (2001) 
				European Union
			2,700 (1995); note - sum of individual country television broadcast stations excluding repeaters; there is also a European-wide station (Eurovision) 
				Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas)
			2 (British Forces Broadcasting Service (BFBS) provides multi-channel satellite service to members of UK Forces as well as islanders); cable television is available in Stanley (2006) 
				Faroe Islands
			3 (plus 43 repeaters) (September 1995) 
				Fiji
			NA 
				Finland
			120 (plus 431 repeaters) (1999); note - On 1 September 2007, Finland began broadcasting all television signals digitally; analogue broadcasts via cable networks were discontinued 29 February 2008 
				France
			584 (plus 9,676 repeaters) (1995) 
				French Polynesia
			7 (plus 17 repeaters) (1997) 
				Gabon
			4 (plus 4 repeaters) (2001) 
				Gambia, The
			1 (government-owned) (1997) 
				Gaza Strip
				Georgia
			12 (plus repeaters) (1998) 
				Germany
			373 (plus 8,042 repeaters) (1995) 
				Ghana
				Gibraltar
			1 (plus 3 repeaters) (1997) 
				Greece
			36 (plus 1,341 repeaters); also 2 stations in the US Armed Forces Radio and Television Service (1995) 
				Greenland
			1 (plus some local low-power stations, and 3 Armed Forces Radio and Television Service (AFRTS) stations (1997) 
				Grenada
				Guam
				Guatemala
			26 (plus 27 repeaters) (1997) 
				Guernsey
				Guinea
				Guinea-Bissau
				Guyana
			3 (1 public station; 2 private stations which relay US satellite services) (1997) 
				Haiti
			2 (plus a cable TV service) (1997) 
				Holy See (Vatican City)
				Honduras
			11 (plus 17 repeaters) (1997) 
				Hong Kong
			2 (2 TV networks, each broadcasting on 2 channels) (2008) 
				Hungary
				Iceland
			14 (plus 156 repeaters) (1997) 
				India
				Indonesia
			54 local TV stations (11 national TV networks; each with its group of local transmitters) (2006) 
				Iran
			29 (plus 450 repeaters) (1997) 
				Iraq
				Ireland
			4 (many repeaters); (projected digital broadcasting scheduled to be launched in 2009) (2008) 
				Isle of Man
			0 (receives broadcasts from the UK and satellite) (1999) 
				Israel
			17 (plus 36 repeaters) (1995) 
				Italy
			358 (plus 4,728 repeaters) (1995) 
				Jamaica
				Japan
			211 (plus 7,341 repeaters); in addition, US Forces are served by 3 TV stations and 2 TV cable services (1999) 
				Jersey
			2 (UK television carried by local relays with a switch to digital broadcasts scheduled for 2010) (2008) 
				Jordan
				Kazakhstan
			12 (plus 9 repeaters) (1998) 
				Kenya
				Kiribati
			1 (possibly inactive) (2002) 
				Korea, North
			4 (includes Korean Central Television, Mansudae Television, Korean Educational and Cultural Network, and Kaesong Television targeting South Korea) (2003) 
				Korea, South
			57 (plus 103 cable operators and 119 relay cable operators) (2008) 
				Kuwait
			13 (plus several satellite channels) (1997) 
				Kyrgyzstan
			8 (2 countrywide and 6 regional stations; state-owned); note - there are about 20 private TV stations, most of which rebroadcast other channels (2007) 
				Laos
			7 (includes 1 station relaying Vietnam Television from Hanoi) (2006) 
				Latvia
			37 (plus 31 repeaters) (2008) 
				Lebanon
			15 (plus 5 repeaters) (1995) 
				Lesotho
				Liberia
			4 (plus 4 repeaters) (2007) 
				Libya
			12 (plus 1 repeater) (1999) 
				Liechtenstein
			NA (linked to Swiss networks) (1997) 
				Lithuania
			44 (may have as many as 100 transmitters, including repeater stations) (2008) 
				Luxembourg
				Macau
				Macedonia
				Madagascar
			1 (plus 36 repeaters) (2001) 
				Malawi
				Malaysia
			88 (mainland Malaysia 51, Sabah 16, and Sarawak 21) (2006) 
				Maldives
				Mali
			2 (plus repeaters) (2007) 
				Malta
				Marshall Islands
			2 (both are US military stations; Marshalls Broadcasting Service, a cable company, operates on Majuro) (2005) 
				Mauritania
				Mauritius
			2 (plus several repeaters) (1997) 
				Mayotte
				Mexico
			236 (plus repeaters) (1997) 
				Micronesia, Federated States of
			3 (cable TV also available) (2004) 
				Moldova
				Monaco
				Mongolia
			456 (including provincial and low-power repeaters) (2006) 
				Montenegro
				Montserrat
				Morocco
			35 (plus 66 repeaters) (1995) 
				Mozambique
				Namibia
				Nauru
				Nepal
			9 (plus 9 repeaters) (2008) 
				Netherlands
				Netherlands Antilles
			3 (there is also a cable service that supplies programs received from various US satellite networks and 4 Venezuelan channels) (2003) 
				New Caledonia
			6 (plus 25 repeaters) (1997) 
				New Zealand
			41 (plus about 700 repeaters) (1997) 
				Nicaragua
			3 (plus 7 repeaters) (1997) 
				Niger
				Nigeria
			3 (the government controls 2 of the broadcasting stations and 15 repeater stations) (2001) 
				Niue
				Norfolk Island
			1 (local programming station plus 2 repeaters that air Australian programs by satellite) (2005) 
				Northern Mariana Islands
			1 (on Saipan; in addition, 2 cable services on Saipan provide varied programming from satellite networks) (2006) 
				Norway
				Oman
			13 (plus 25 repeaters) (1999) 
				Pakistan
			20 (5 state-run channels and 15 privately-owned satellite channels) (2006) 
				Palau
			1 (cable) (2005) 
				Panama
			38 (including repeaters) (1998) 
				Papua New Guinea
			3 (all in the Port Moresby area; stations at Mt. Hagen, Goroka, Lae, and Rabaul are planned) (2004) 
				Paraguay
				Peru
			13 (plus 112 repeaters) (1997) 
				Philippines
			250 (plus 1,501 CATV networks) (2007) 
				Poland
				Portugal
				Puerto Rico
				Qatar
			1 (plus 3 repeaters) (2001) 
				Romania
			623 (plus 200 repeaters) (2006) 
				Russia
				Rwanda
				Saint Helena
			0 (3 television channels are received via satellite and distributed by UHF) (2005) 
				Saint Kitts and Nevis
			1 (plus 3 repeaters) (2003) 
				Saint Lucia
			2 (1 commercial broadcast station and 1 community antenna television or CATV channel) (2003) 
				Saint Pierre and Miquelon
			0 (2 repeaters rebroadcast programs from France, Canada, and the US) (1997) 
				Saint Vincent and the Grenadines
			1 (plus 3 repeaters) (2004) 
				Samoa
				San Marino
			1 (San Marino residents also receive broadcasts from Italy) (1997) 
				Sao Tome and Principe
				Saudi Arabia
				Senegal
				Seychelles
			2 (plus 9 repeaters) (1997) 
				Sierra Leone
				Singapore
			1 (broadcasting on 8 channels); additional reception of numerous UHF and VHF signals originating in Malaysia and Indonesia (2008) 
				Slovakia
				Slovenia
				Somalia
			4 (2 in Mogadishu and 2 in Hargeisa) (2001) 
				South Africa
			556 (plus 144 network repeaters) (1997) 
				South Georgia and the South Sandwich Islands
				Spain
				Sri Lanka
				Sudan
				Suriname
			3 (plus 7 repeaters) (2000) 
				Svalbard
			NA 
				Swaziland
			12 (includes 7 relay stations) (2004) 
				Sweden
				Switzerland
				Syria
			44 (plus 17 repeaters) (1995) 
				Taiwan
			76 (5 television networks with 46 digital and 30 analog stations) (2007) 
				Tajikistan
				Tanzania
				Thailand
				Timor-Leste
			1 (Timor-Leste has one national public broadcaster) 
				Togo
			3 (plus 2 repeaters) (1997) 
				Tonga
				Trinidad and Tobago
				Tunisia
			26 (plus 76 repeaters) (1995) 
				Turkey
			635 (plus 2,934 repeaters) (1995) 
				Turkmenistan
			4 (government-owned and programmed) (2004) 
				Turks and Caicos Islands
			0 (broadcasts received from The Bahamas; 2 cable television networks) (2003) 
				Tuvalu
				Uganda
			8 (plus 1 repeater) (2001) 
				Ukraine
				United Arab Emirates
				United Kingdom
				United States
				Uruguay
				Uzbekistan
			28 (includes 1 cable rebroadcaster in Tashkent and approximately 20 stations in regional capitals) (2006) 
				Vanuatu
				Venezuela
			66 (plus 45 repeaters) (1997) 
				Vietnam
			67 (includes 61 relay, provincial, and city TV stations) (2006) 
				Virgin Islands
				Wake Island
				Wallis and Futuna
				West Bank
				Western Sahara
			NA 
				World
			NA 
				Yemen
			3 (including one Egypt-based station that broadcasts in Yemen); plus several repeaters (2007) 
				Zambia
				Zimbabwe
				This page was last updated on 19 March 2009
&nbsp; 
CIA - The World Factbook -- Field Listing - Suffrage
&nbsp; 
				    &nbsp; 
                    Field Listing - Suffrage
         Home 
          &nbsp;Reference Maps 
          &nbsp;Appendixes 
			Country
			Suffrage 	
				Afghanistan
			18 years of age; universal 
				Albania
			18 years of age; universal 
				Algeria
			18 years of age; universal 
				American Samoa
			18 years of age; universal 
				Andorra
			18 years of age; universal 
				Angola
			18 years of age; universal 
				Anguilla
			18 years of age; universal 
				Antigua and Barbuda
			18 years of age; universal 
				Argentina
			18 years of age; universal and compulsory 
				Armenia
			18 years of age; universal 
				Aruba
			18 years of age; universal 
				Australia
			18 years of age; universal and compulsory 
				Austria
			16 years of age; universal; note - reduced from 18 years of age in 2007 
				Azerbaijan
			18 years of age; universal 
				Bahamas, The
			18 years of age; universal 
				Bahrain
			20 years of age; universal 
				Bangladesh
			18 years of age; universal 
				Barbados
			18 years of age; universal 
				Belarus
			18 years of age; universal 
				Belgium
			18 years of age; universal and compulsory 
				Belize
			18 years of age; universal 
				Benin
			18 years of age; universal 
				Bermuda
			18 years of age; universal 
				Bhutan
			18 years of age; universal 
				Bolivia
			18 years of age, universal and compulsory (married); 21 years of age, universal and compulsory (single) 
				Bosnia and Herzegovina
			18 years of age, 16 if employed; universal 
				Botswana
			18 years of age; universal 
				Brazil
			voluntary between 16 and 18 years of age and over 70; compulsory over 18 and under 70 years of age; note - military conscripts do not vote 
				British Virgin Islands
			18 years of age; universal 
				Brunei
			18 years of age for village elections; universal 
				Bulgaria
			18 years of age; universal 
				Burkina Faso
			18 years of age; universal 
				Burma
			18 years of age; universal 
				Burundi
			NA years of age; universal (adult) 
				Cambodia
			18 years of age; universal 
				Cameroon
			20 years of age; universal 
				Canada
			18 years of age; universal 
				Cape Verde
			18 years of age; universal 
				Cayman Islands
			18 years of age; universal 
				Central African Republic
			21 years of age; universal 
				Chad
			18 years of age; universal 
				Chile
			18 years of age; universal and compulsory 
				China
			18 years of age; universal 
				Cocos (Keeling) Islands
			NA 
				Colombia
			18 years of age; universal 
				Comoros
			18 years of age; universal 
				Congo, Democratic Republic of the
			18 years of age; universal and compulsory 
				Congo, Republic of the
			18 years of age; universal 
				Cook Islands
			NA years of age; universal (adult) 
				Costa Rica
			18 years of age; universal and compulsory 
				Cote d'Ivoire
			18 years of age; universal 
				Croatia
			18 years of age; universal (16 years of age, if employed) 
				Cuba
			16 years of age; universal 
				Cyprus
			18 years of age; universal 
				Czech Republic
			18 years of age; universal 
				Denmark
			18 years of age; universal 
				Djibouti
			18 years of age; universal 
				Dominica
			18 years of age; universal 
				Dominican Republic
			18 years of age, universal and compulsory; married persons regardless of age; note - members of the armed forces and national police cannot vote 
				Ecuador
			18 years of age; universal, compulsory for literate persons ages 18-65, optional for other eligible voters 
				Egypt
			18 years of age; universal and compulsory 
				El Salvador
			18 years of age; universal 
				Equatorial Guinea
			18 years of age; universal 
				Eritrea
			18 years of age; universal 
				Estonia
			18 years of age; universal for all Estonian citizens 
				Ethiopia
			18 years of age; universal 
				European Union
			18 years of age; universal 
				Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas)
			18 years of age; universal 
				Faroe Islands
			18 years of age; universal 
				Fiji
			21 years of age; universal 
				Finland
			18 years of age; universal 
				France
			18 years of age; universal 
				French Polynesia
			18 years of age; universal 
				Gabon
			21 years of age; universal 
				Gambia, The
			18 years of age; universal 
				Georgia
			18 years of age; universal 
				Germany
			18 years of age; universal 
				Ghana
			18 years of age; universal 
				Gibraltar
			18 years of age; universal; and British citizens who have been residents six months or more 
				Greece
			18 years of age; universal and compulsory 
				Greenland
			18 years of age; universal 
				Grenada
			18 years of age; universal 
				Guam
			18 years of age; universal; US citizens, but do not vote in US presidential elections 
				Guatemala
			18 years of age; universal; note - active duty members of the armed forces may not vote and are restricted to their barracks on election day 
				Guernsey
			16 years of age; universal 
				Guinea
			18 years of age; universal 
				Guinea-Bissau
			18 years of age; universal 
				Guyana
			18 years of age; universal 
				Haiti
			18 years of age; universal 
				Holy See (Vatican City)
			limited to cardinals less than 80 years old 
				Honduras
			18 years of age; universal and compulsory 
				Hong Kong
			direct election - 18 years of age for half the legislature and a majority of seats in 18 district councils; universal for permanent residents living in the territory of Hong Kong for the past seven years; indirect election - limited to about 220,000 members of functional constituencies and an 800-member election committee drawn from broad regional groupings, central government bodies, and municipal organizations 
				Hungary
			18 years of age; universal 
				Iceland
			18 years of age; universal 
				India
			18 years of age; universal 
				Indonesia
			17 years of age; universal and married persons regardless of age 
				Iran
			18 years of age; universal 
				Iraq
			18 years of age; universal 
				Ireland
			18 years of age; universal 
				Isle of Man
			16 years of age; universal 
				Israel
			18 years of age; universal 
				Italy
			18 years of age; universal (except in senatorial elections, where minimum age is 25) 
				Jamaica
			18 years of age; universal 
				Japan
			20 years of age; universal 
				Jersey
			16 years of age; universal 
				Jordan
			18 years of age; universal 
				Kazakhstan
			18 years of age; universal 
				Kenya
			18 years of age; universal 
				Kiribati
			18 years of age; universal 
				Korea, North
			17 years of age; universal 
				Korea, South
			19 years of age; universal 
				Kosovo
			18 years of age; universal 
				Kuwait
			21 years of age; universal (adult); note - males in the military or police are not allowed to vote; adult females were allowed to vote as of 16 May 2005; all voters must have been citizens for 20 years 
				Kyrgyzstan
			18 years of age; universal 
				Laos
			18 years of age; universal 
				Latvia
			18 years of age; universal for Latvian citizens 
				Lebanon
			21 years of age; compulsory for all males; authorized for women at age 21 with elementary education; excludes military personnel 
				Lesotho
			18 years of age; universal 
				Liberia
			18 years of age; universal 
				Libya
			18 years of age; universal and technically compulsory 
				Liechtenstein
			18 years of age; universal 
				Lithuania
			18 years of age; universal 
				Luxembourg
			18 years of age; universal and compulsory 
				Macau
			direct election 18 years of age for some non-executive positions, universal for permanent residents living in Macau for the past seven years; indirect election limited to organizations registered as "corporate voters" (257 are currently registered) and a 300-member Election Committee drawn from broad regional groupings, municipal organizations, and central government bodies 
				Macedonia
			18 years of age; universal 
				Madagascar
			18 years of age; universal 
				Malawi
			18 years of age; universal 
				Malaysia
			21 years of age; universal 
				Maldives
			21 years of age; universal 
				Mali
			18 years of age; universal 
				Malta
			18 years of age; universal 
				Marshall Islands
			18 years of age; universal 
				Mauritania
			18 years of age; universal 
				Mauritius
			18 years of age; universal 
				Mayotte
			18 years of age; universal 
				Mexico
			18 years of age; universal and compulsory (but not enforced) 
				Micronesia, Federated States of
			18 years of age; universal 
				Moldova
			18 years of age; universal 
				Monaco
			18 years of age; universal 
				Mongolia
			18 years of age; universal 
				Montenegro
			18 years of age; universal 
				Montserrat
			18 years of age; universal 
				Morocco
			18 years of age; universal (as of January 2003) 
				Mozambique
			18 years of age; universal 
				Namibia
			18 years of age; universal 
				Nauru
			20 years of age; universal and compulsory 
				Nepal
			18 years of age; universal 
				Netherlands
			18 years of age; universal 
				Netherlands Antilles
			18 years of age; universal 
				New Caledonia
			18 years of age; universal 
				New Zealand
			18 years of age; universal 
				Nicaragua
			16 years of age; universal 
				Niger
			18 years of age; universal 
				Nigeria
			18 years of age; universal 
				Niue
			18 years of age; universal 
				Norfolk Island
			18 years of age; universal 
				Northern Mariana Islands
			18 years of age; universal; indigenous inhabitants are US citizens but do not vote in US presidential elections 
				Norway
			18 years of age; universal 
				Oman
			21 years of age; universal; note - members of the military and security forces are not allowed to vote 
				Pakistan
			18 years of age; universal; joint electorates and reserved parliamentary seats for women and non-Muslims 
				Palau
			18 years of age; universal 
				Panama
			18 years of age; universal and compulsory 
				Papua New Guinea
			18 years of age; universal 
				Paraguay
			18 years of age; universal and compulsory up to age 75 
				Peru
			18 years of age; universal and compulsory until the age of 70; note - for the first time in recent elections, members of the military and national police were eligible to vote in the 2006 elections 
				Philippines
			18 years of age; universal 
				Pitcairn Islands
			18 years of age; universal with three years residency 
				Poland
			18 years of age; universal 
				Portugal
			18 years of age; universal 
				Puerto Rico
			18 years of age; universal; island residents are US citizens but do not vote in US presidential elections 
				Qatar
			18 years of age; universal 
				Romania
			18 years of age; universal 
				Russia
			18 years of age; universal 
				Rwanda
			18 years of age; universal 
				Saint Barthelemy
			18 years of age, universal 
				Saint Helena
			NA years of age 
				Saint Kitts and Nevis
			18 years of age; universal 
				Saint Lucia
			18 years of age; universal 
				Saint Martin
			18 years of age, universal 
				Saint Pierre and Miquelon
			18 years of age; universal 
				Saint Vincent and the Grenadines
			18 years of age; universal 
				Samoa
			21 years of age; universal 
				San Marino
			18 years of age; universal 
				Sao Tome and Principe
			18 years of age; universal 
				Saudi Arabia
			21 years of age; male 
				Senegal
			18 years of age; universal 
				Serbia
			18 years of age; universal 
				Seychelles
			17 years of age; universal 
				Sierra Leone
			18 years of age; universal 
				Singapore
			21 years of age; universal and compulsory 
				Slovakia
			18 years of age; universal 
				Slovenia
			18 years of age; universal (16 years of age, if employed) 
				Solomon Islands
			21 years of age; universal 
				Somalia
			18 years of age; universal 
				South Africa
			18 years of age; universal 
				Spain
			18 years of age; universal 
				Sri Lanka
			18 years of age; universal 
				Sudan
			17 years of age; universal 
				Suriname
			18 years of age; universal 
				Swaziland
			18 years of age 
				Sweden
			18 years of age; universal 
				Switzerland
			18 years of age; universal 
				Syria
			18 years of age; universal 
				Taiwan
			20 years of age; universal 
				Tajikistan
			18 years of age; universal 
				Tanzania
			18 years of age; universal 
				Thailand
			18 years of age; universal and compulsory 
				Timor-Leste
			17 years of age; universal 
				Togo
			NA years of age; universal (adult) 
				Tokelau
			21 years of age; universal 
				Tonga
			21 years of age; universal 
				Trinidad and Tobago
			18 years of age; universal 
				Tunisia
			18 years of age; universal except for active government security forces (including the police and the military), people with mental disabilities, people who have served more than three months in prison (criminal cases only), and people given a suspended sentence of more than six months 
				Turkey
			18 years of age; universal 
				Turkmenistan
			18 years of age; universal 
				Turks and Caicos Islands
			18 years of age; universal 
				Tuvalu
			18 years of age; universal 
				Uganda
			18 years of age; universal 
				Ukraine
			18 years of age; universal 
				United Arab Emirates
			none 
				United Kingdom
			18 years of age; universal 
				United States
			18 years of age; universal 
				Uruguay
			18 years of age; universal and compulsory 
				Uzbekistan
			18 years of age; universal 
				Vanuatu
			18 years of age; universal 
				Venezuela
			18 years of age; universal 
				Vietnam
			18 years of age; universal 
				Virgin Islands
			18 years of age; universal; island residents are US citizens but do not vote in US presidential elections 
				Wallis and Futuna
			18 years of age; universal 
				Western Sahara
			none; a UN-sponsored voter identification campaign not yet completed 
				Yemen
			18 years of age; universal 
				Zambia
			18 years of age; universal 
				Zimbabwe
			18 years of age; universal  		
				This page was last updated on 19 March 2009
&nbsp; 
CIA - The World Factbook -- Field Listing - Environment - current issues
&nbsp; 
				    &nbsp; 
                    Field Listing - Environment - current issues
         Home 
          &nbsp;Reference Maps 
          &nbsp;Appendixes 
			Country
			Environment - current issues 	
				Afghanistan
			limited natural fresh water resources; inadequate supplies of potable water; soil degradation; overgrazing; deforestation (much of the remaining forests are being cut down for fuel and building materials); desertification; air and water pollution 
				Akrotiri
			shooting around the salt lake; note - breeding place for loggerhead and green turtles; only remaining colony of griffon vultures is on the base 
				Albania
			deforestation; soil erosion; water pollution from industrial and domestic effluents 
				Algeria
			soil erosion from overgrazing and other poor farming practices; desertification; dumping of raw sewage, petroleum refining wastes, and other industrial effluents is leading to the pollution of rivers and coastal waters; Mediterranean Sea, in particular, becoming polluted from oil wastes, soil erosion, and fertilizer runoff; inadequate supplies of potable water 
				American Samoa
			limited natural fresh water resources; the water division of the government has spent substantial funds in the past few years to improve water catchments and pipelines 
				Andorra
			deforestation; overgrazing of mountain meadows contributes to soil erosion; air pollution; wastewater treatment and solid waste disposal 
				Angola
			overuse of pastures and subsequent soil erosion attributable to population pressures; desertification; deforestation of tropical rain forest, in response to both international demand for tropical timber and to domestic use as fuel, resulting in loss of biodiversity; soil erosion contributing to water pollution and siltation of rivers and dams; inadequate supplies of potable water 
				Anguilla
			supplies of potable water sometimes cannot meet increasing demand largely because of poor distribution system 
				Antarctica
			in 1998, NASA satellite data showed that the Antarctic ozone hole was the largest on record, covering 27 million square kilometers; researchers in 1997 found that increased ultraviolet light passing through the hole damages the DNA of icefish, an Antarctic fish lacking hemoglobin; ozone depletion earlier was shown to harm one-celled Antarctic marine plants; in 2002, significant areas of ice shelves disintegrated in response to regional warming 
				Antigua and Barbuda
			water management - a major concern because of limited natural fresh water resources - is further hampered by the clearing of trees to increase crop production, causing rainfall to run off quickly 
				Arctic Ocean
			endangered marine species include walruses and whales; fragile ecosystem slow to change and slow to recover from disruptions or damage; thinning polar icepack 
				Argentina
			environmental problems (urban and rural) typical of an industrializing economy such as deforestation, soil degradation, desertification, air pollution, and water pollution 
				note: Argentina is a world leader in setting voluntary greenhouse gas targets 
				Armenia
			soil pollution from toxic chemicals such as DDT; the energy crisis of the 1990s led to deforestation when citizens scavenged for firewood; pollution of Hrazdan (Razdan) and Aras Rivers; the draining of Sevana Lich (Lake Sevan), a result of its use as a source for hydropower, threatens drinking water supplies; restart of Metsamor nuclear power plant in spite of its location in a seismically active zone 
				Aruba
			NA 
				Ashmore and Cartier Islands
			illegal killing of protected wildlife by traditional Indonesian fisherman, as well as fishing by non-traditional Indonesian vessels, are ongoing problems 
				Atlantic Ocean
			endangered marine species include the manatee, seals, sea lions, turtles, and whales; drift net fishing is hastening the decline of fish stocks and contributing to international disputes; municipal sludge pollution off eastern US, southern Brazil, and eastern Argentina; oil pollution in Caribbean Sea, Gulf of Mexico, Lake Maracaibo, Mediterranean Sea, and North Sea; industrial waste and municipal sewage pollution in Baltic Sea, North Sea, and Mediterranean Sea 
				Australia
			soil erosion from overgrazing, industrial development, urbanization, and poor farming practices; soil salinity rising due to the use of poor quality water; desertification; clearing for agricultural purposes threatens the natural habitat of many unique animal and plant species; the Great Barrier Reef off the northeast coast, the largest coral reef in the world, is threatened by increased shipping and its popularity as a tourist site; limited natural fresh water resources 
				Austria
			some forest degradation caused by air and soil pollution; soil pollution results from the use of agricultural chemicals; air pollution results from emissions by coal- and oil-fired power stations and industrial plants and from trucks transiting Austria between northern and southern Europe 
				Azerbaijan
			local scientists consider the Abseron Yasaqligi (Apsheron Peninsula) (including Baku and Sumqayit) and the Caspian Sea to be the ecologically most devastated area in the world because of severe air, soil, and water pollution; soil pollution results from oil spills, from the use of DDT pesticide, and from toxic defoliants used in the production of cotton 
				Bahamas, The
			coral reef decay; solid waste disposal 
				Bahrain
			desertification resulting from the degradation of limited arable land, periods of drought, and dust storms; coastal degradation (damage to coastlines, coral reefs, and sea vegetation) resulting from oil spills and other discharges from large tankers, oil refineries, and distribution stations; lack of freshwater resources (groundwater and seawater are the only sources for all water needs) 
				Bangladesh
			many people are landless and forced to live on and cultivate flood-prone land; waterborne diseases prevalent in surface water; water pollution, especially of fishing areas, results from the use of commercial pesticides; ground water contaminated by naturally occurring arsenic; intermittent water shortages because of falling water tables in the northern and central parts of the country; soil degradation and erosion; deforestation; severe overpopulation 
				Barbados
			pollution of coastal waters from waste disposal by ships; soil erosion; illegal solid waste disposal threatens contamination of aquifers 
				Belarus
			soil pollution from pesticide use; southern part of the country contaminated with fallout from 1986 nuclear reactor accident at Chornobyl' in northern Ukraine 
				Belgium
			the environment is exposed to intense pressures from human activities: urbanization, dense transportation network, industry, extensive animal breeding and crop cultivation; air and water pollution also have repercussions for neighboring countries; uncertainties regarding federal and regional responsibilities (now resolved) had slowed progress in tackling environmental challenges 
				Belize
			deforestation; water pollution from sewage, industrial effluents, agricultural runoff; solid and sewage waste disposal 
				Benin
			inadequate supplies of potable water; poaching threatens wildlife populations; deforestation; desertification 
				Bermuda
			sustainable development 
				Bhutan
			soil erosion; limited access to potable water 
				Bolivia
			the clearing of land for agricultural purposes and the international demand for tropical timber are contributing to deforestation; soil erosion from overgrazing and poor cultivation methods (including slash-and-burn agriculture); desertification; loss of biodiversity; industrial pollution of water supplies used for drinking and irrigation 
				Bosnia and Herzegovina
			air pollution from metallurgical plants; sites for disposing of urban waste are limited; water shortages and destruction of infrastructure because of the 1992-95 civil strife; deforestation 
				Botswana
			overgrazing; desertification; limited fresh water resources 
				Bouvet Island
			NA 
				Brazil
			deforestation in Amazon Basin destroys the habitat and endangers a multitude of plant and animal species indigenous to the area; there is a lucrative illegal wildlife trade; air and water pollution in Rio de Janeiro, Sao Paulo, and several other large cities; land degradation and water pollution caused by improper mining activities; wetland degradation; severe oil spills 
				British Indian Ocean Territory
			NA 
				British Virgin Islands
			limited natural fresh water resources (except for a few seasonal streams and springs on Tortola, most of the islands' water supply comes from wells and rainwater catchments) 
				Brunei
			seasonal smoke/haze resulting from forest fires in Indonesia 
				Bulgaria
			air pollution from industrial emissions; rivers polluted from raw sewage, heavy metals, detergents; deforestation; forest damage from air pollution and resulting acid rain; soil contamination from heavy metals from metallurgical plants and industrial wastes 
				Burkina Faso
			recent droughts and desertification severely affecting agricultural activities, population distribution, and the economy; overgrazing; soil degradation; deforestation 
				Burma
			deforestation; industrial pollution of air, soil, and water; inadequate sanitation and water treatment contribute to disease 
				Burundi
			soil erosion as a result of overgrazing and the expansion of agriculture into marginal lands; deforestation (little forested land remains because of uncontrolled cutting of trees for fuel); habitat loss threatens wildlife populations 
				Cambodia
			illegal logging activities throughout the country and strip mining for gems in the western region along the border with Thailand have resulted in habitat loss and declining biodiversity (in particular, destruction of mangrove swamps threatens natural fisheries); soil erosion; in rural areas, most of the population does not have access to potable water; declining fish stocks because of illegal fishing and overfishing 
				Cameroon
			waterborne diseases are prevalent; deforestation; overgrazing; desertification; poaching; overfishing 
				Canada
			air pollution and resulting acid rain severely affecting lakes and damaging forests; metal smelting, coal-burning utilities, and vehicle emissions impacting on agricultural and forest productivity; ocean waters becoming contaminated due to agricultural, industrial, mining, and forestry activities 
				Cape Verde
			soil erosion; deforestation due to demand for wood used as fuel; water shortages; desertification; environmental damage has threatened several species of birds and reptiles; illegal beach sand extraction; overfishing 
				Cayman Islands
			no natural fresh water resources; drinking water supplies must be met by rainwater catchments 
				Central African Republic
			tap water is not potable; poaching has diminished the country's reputation as one of the last great wildlife refuges; desertification; deforestation 
				Chad
			inadequate supplies of potable water; improper waste disposal in rural areas contributes to soil and water pollution; desertification 
				Chile
			widespread deforestation and mining threaten natural resources; air pollution from industrial and vehicle emissions; water pollution from raw sewage 
				China
			air pollution (greenhouse gases, sulfur dioxide particulates) from reliance on coal produces acid rain; water shortages, particularly in the north; water pollution from untreated wastes; deforestation; estimated loss of one-fifth of agricultural land since 1949 to soil erosion and economic development; desertification; trade in endangered species 
				Christmas Island
			loss of rainforest; impact of phosphate mining 
				Clipperton Island
			NA 
				Cocos (Keeling) Islands
			fresh water resources are limited to rainwater accumulations in natural underground reservoirs 
				Colombia
			deforestation; soil and water quality damage from overuse of pesticides; air pollution, especially in Bogota, from vehicle emissions 
				Comoros
			soil degradation and erosion results from crop cultivation on slopes without proper terracing; deforestation 
				Congo, Democratic Republic of the
			poaching threatens wildlife populations; water pollution; deforestation; refugees responsible for significant deforestation, soil erosion, and wildlife poaching; mining of minerals (coltan - a mineral used in creating capacitors, diamonds, and gold) causing environmental damage 
				Congo, Republic of the
			air pollution from vehicle emissions; water pollution from the dumping of raw sewage; tap water is not potable; deforestation 
				Cook Islands
			NA 
				Coral Sea Islands
			no permanent fresh water resources 
				Costa Rica
			deforestation and land use change, largely a result of the clearing of land for cattle ranching and agriculture; soil erosion; coastal marine pollution; fisheries protection; solid waste management; air pollution 
				Cote d'Ivoire
			deforestation (most of the country's forests - once the largest in West Africa - have been heavily logged); water pollution from sewage and industrial and agricultural effluents 
				Croatia
			air pollution (from metallurgical plants) and resulting acid rain is damaging the forests; coastal pollution from industrial and domestic waste; landmine removal and reconstruction of infrastructure consequent to 1992-95 civil strife 
				Cuba
			air and water pollution; biodiversity loss; deforestation 
				Cyprus
			water resource problems (no natural reservoir catchments, seasonal disparity in rainfall, sea water intrusion to island's largest aquifer, increased salination in the north); water pollution from sewage and industrial wastes; coastal degradation; loss of wildlife habitats from urbanization 
				Czech Republic
			air and water pollution in areas of northwest Bohemia and in northern Moravia around Ostrava present health risks; acid rain damaging forests; efforts to bring industry up to EU code should improve domestic pollution 
				Denmark
			air pollution, principally from vehicle and power plant emissions; nitrogen and phosphorus pollution of the North Sea; drinking and surface water becoming polluted from animal wastes and pesticides 
				Dhekelia
			netting and trapping of small migrant songbirds in the spring and autumn 
				Djibouti
			inadequate supplies of potable water; limited arable land; desertification; endangered species 
				Dominica
			NA 
				Dominican Republic
			water shortages; soil eroding into the sea damages coral reefs; deforestation 
				Ecuador
			deforestation; soil erosion; desertification; water pollution; pollution from oil production wastes in ecologically sensitive areas of the Amazon Basin and Galapagos Islands 
				Egypt
			agricultural land being lost to urbanization and windblown sands; increasing soil salination below Aswan High Dam; desertification; oil pollution threatening coral reefs, beaches, and marine habitats; other water pollution from agricultural pesticides, raw sewage, and industrial effluents; limited natural fresh water resources away from the Nile, which is the only perennial water source; rapid growth in population overstraining the Nile and natural resources 
				El Salvador
			deforestation; soil erosion; water pollution; contamination of soils from disposal of toxic wastes 
				Equatorial Guinea
			tap water is not potable; deforestation 
				Eritrea
			deforestation; desertification; soil erosion; overgrazing; loss of infrastructure from civil warfare 
				Estonia
			air polluted with sulfur dioxide from oil-shale burning power plants in northeast; however, the amount of pollutants emitted to the air have fallen steadily, the emissions of 2000 were 80% less than in 1980; the amount of unpurified wastewater discharged to water bodies in 2000 was one-20th the level of 1980; in connection with the start-up of new water purification plants, the pollution load of wastewater decreased; Estonia has more than 1,400 natural and manmade lakes, the smaller of which in agricultural areas need to be monitored; coastal seawater is polluted in certain locations 
				Ethiopia
			deforestation; overgrazing; soil erosion; desertification; water shortages in some areas from water-intensive farming and poor management 
				European Union
			NA 
				Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas)
			overfishing by unlicensed vessels is a problem; reindeer were introduced to the islands in 2001 for commercial reasons; this is the only commercial reindeer herd in the world unaffected by the 1986 Chornobyl disaster 
				Faroe Islands
			NA 
				Fiji
			deforestation; soil erosion 
				Finland
			air pollution from manufacturing and power plants contributing to acid rain; water pollution from industrial wastes, agricultural chemicals; habitat loss threatens wildlife populations 
				France
			some forest damage from acid rain; air pollution from industrial and vehicle emissions; water pollution from urban wastes, agricultural runoff 
				French Polynesia
			NA 
				French Southern and Antarctic Lands
			introduction of foreign species on Iles Crozet has caused severe damage to the original ecosystem; overfishing of Patagonian Toothfish around Iles Crozet and Iles Kerguelen 
				Gabon
			deforestation; poaching 
				Gambia, The
			deforestation; desertification; water-borne diseases prevalent 
				Gaza Strip
			desertification; salination of fresh water; sewage treatment; water-borne disease; soil degradation; depletion and contamination of underground water resources 
				Georgia
			air pollution, particularly in Rust'avi; heavy pollution of Mtkvari River and the Black Sea; inadequate supplies of potable water; soil pollution from toxic chemicals 
				Germany
			emissions from coal-burning utilities and industries contribute to air pollution; acid rain, resulting from sulfur dioxide emissions, is damaging forests; pollution in the Baltic Sea from raw sewage and industrial effluents from rivers in eastern Germany; hazardous waste disposal; government established a mechanism for ending the use of nuclear power over the next 15 years; government working to meet EU commitment to identify nature preservation areas in line with the EU's Flora, Fauna, and Habitat directive 
				Ghana
			recurrent drought in north severely affects agricultural activities; deforestation; overgrazing; soil erosion; poaching and habitat destruction threatens wildlife populations; water pollution; inadequate supplies of potable water 
				Gibraltar
			limited natural freshwater resources: large concrete or natural rock water catchments collect rainwater (no longer used for drinking water) and adequate desalination plant 
				Greece
			air pollution; water pollution 
				Greenland
			protection of the arctic environment; preservation of the Inuit traditional way of life, including whaling and seal hunting 
				Grenada
			NA 
				Guam
			extirpation of native bird population by the rapid proliferation of the brown tree snake, an exotic, invasive species 
				Guatemala
			deforestation in the Peten rainforest; soil erosion; water pollution 
				Guernsey
			NA 
				Guinea
			deforestation; inadequate supplies of potable water; desertification; soil contamination and erosion; overfishing, overpopulation in forest region; poor mining practices have led to environmental damage 
				Guinea-Bissau
			deforestation; soil erosion; overgrazing; overfishing 
				Guyana
			water pollution from sewage and agricultural and industrial chemicals; deforestation 
				Haiti
			extensive deforestation (much of the remaining forested land is being cleared for agriculture and used as fuel); soil erosion; inadequate supplies of potable water 
				Heard Island and McDonald Islands
			NA 
				Holy See (Vatican City)
			NA 
				Honduras
			urban population expanding; deforestation results from logging and the clearing of land for agricultural purposes; further land degradation and soil erosion hastened by uncontrolled development and improper land use practices such as farming of marginal lands; mining activities polluting Lago de Yojoa (the country's largest source of fresh water), as well as several rivers and streams, with heavy metals 
				Hong Kong
			air and water pollution from rapid urbanization 
				Hungary
			the upgrading of Hungary's standards in waste management, energy efficiency, and air, soil, and water pollution to meet EU requirements will require large investments 
				Iceland
			water pollution from fertilizer runoff; inadequate wastewater treatment 
				India
			deforestation; soil erosion; overgrazing; desertification; air pollution from industrial effluents and vehicle emissions; water pollution from raw sewage and runoff of agricultural pesticides; tap water is not potable throughout the country; huge and growing population is overstraining natural resources 
				Indian Ocean
			endangered marine species include the dugong, seals, turtles, and whales; oil pollution in the Arabian Sea, Persian Gulf, and Red Sea 
				Indonesia
			deforestation; water pollution from industrial wastes, sewage; air pollution in urban areas; smoke and haze from forest fires 
				Iran
			air pollution, especially in urban areas, from vehicle emissions, refinery operations, and industrial effluents; deforestation; overgrazing; desertification; oil pollution in the Persian Gulf; wetland losses from drought; soil degradation (salination); inadequate supplies of potable water; water pollution from raw sewage and industrial waste; urbanization 
				Iraq
			government water control projects have drained most of the inhabited marsh areas east of An Nasiriyah by drying up or diverting the feeder streams and rivers; a once sizable population of Marsh Arabs, who inhabited these areas for thousands of years, has been displaced; furthermore, the destruction of the natural habitat poses serious threats to the area's wildlife populations; inadequate supplies of potable water; development of the Tigris and Euphrates rivers system contingent upon agreements with upstream riparian Turkey; air and water pollution; soil degradation (salination) and erosion; desertification 
				Ireland
			water pollution, especially of lakes, from agricultural runoff 
				Isle of Man
			waste disposal (both household and industrial); transboundary air pollution 
				Israel
			limited arable land and natural fresh water resources pose serious constraints; desertification; air pollution from industrial and vehicle emissions; groundwater pollution from industrial and domestic waste, chemical fertilizers, and pesticides 
				Italy
			air pollution from industrial emissions such as sulfur dioxide; coastal and inland rivers polluted from industrial and agricultural effluents; acid rain damaging lakes; inadequate industrial waste treatment and disposal facilities 
				Jamaica
			heavy rates of deforestation; coastal waters polluted by industrial waste, sewage, and oil spills; damage to coral reefs; air pollution in Kingston results from vehicle emissions 
				Jan Mayen
			NA 
				Japan
			air pollution from power plant emissions results in acid rain; acidification of lakes and reservoirs degrading water quality and threatening aquatic life; Japan is one of the largest consumers of fish and tropical timber, contributing to the depletion of these resources in Asia and elsewhere 
				Jersey
			NA 
				Jordan
			limited natural fresh water resources; deforestation; overgrazing; soil erosion; desertification 
				Kazakhstan
			radioactive or toxic chemical sites associated with former defense industries and test ranges scattered throughout the country pose health risks for humans and animals; industrial pollution is severe in some cities; because the two main rivers that flowed into the Aral Sea have been diverted for irrigation, it is drying up and leaving behind a harmful layer of chemical pesticides and natural salts; these substances are then picked up by the wind and blown into noxious dust storms; pollution in the Caspian Sea; soil pollution from overuse of agricultural chemicals and salination from poor infrastructure and wasteful irrigation practices 
				Kenya
			water pollution from urban and industrial wastes; degradation of water quality from increased use of pesticides and fertilizers; water hyacinth infestation in Lake Victoria; deforestation; soil erosion; desertification; poaching 
				Kiribati
			heavy pollution in lagoon of south Tarawa atoll due to heavy migration mixed with traditional practices such as lagoon latrines and open-pit dumping; ground water at risk 
				Korea, North
			water pollution; inadequate supplies of potable water; waterborne disease; deforestation; soil erosion and degradation 
				Korea, South
			air pollution in large cities; acid rain; water pollution from the discharge of sewage and industrial effluents; drift net fishing 
				Kuwait
			limited natural fresh water resources; some of world's largest and most sophisticated desalination facilities provide much of the water; air and water pollution; desertification 
				Kyrgyzstan
			water pollution; many people get their water directly from contaminated streams and wells; as a result, water-borne diseases are prevalent; increasing soil salinity from faulty irrigation practices 
				Laos
			unexploded ordnance; deforestation; soil erosion; most of the population does not have access to potable water 
				Latvia
			Latvia's environment has benefited from a shift to service industries after the country regained independence; the main environmental priorities are improvement of drinking water quality and sewage system, household, and hazardous waste management, as well as reduction of air pollution; in 2001, Latvia closed the EU accession negotiation chapter on environment committing to full enforcement of EU environmental directives by 2010 
				Lebanon
			deforestation; soil erosion; desertification; air pollution in Beirut from vehicular traffic and the burning of industrial wastes; pollution of coastal waters from raw sewage and oil spills 
				Lesotho
			population pressure forcing settlement in marginal areas results in overgrazing, severe soil erosion, and soil exhaustion; desertification; Highlands Water Project controls, stores, and redirects water to South Africa 
				Liberia
			tropical rain forest deforestation; soil erosion; loss of biodiversity; pollution of coastal waters from oil residue and raw sewage 
				Libya
			desertification; limited natural fresh water resources; the Great Manmade River Project, the largest water development scheme in the world, is being built to bring water from large aquifers under the Sahara to coastal cities 
				Liechtenstein
			NA 
				Lithuania
			contamination of soil and groundwater with petroleum products and chemicals at military bases 
				Luxembourg
			air and water pollution in urban areas, soil pollution of farmland 
				Macau
			NA 
				Macedonia
			air pollution from metallurgical plants 
				Madagascar
			soil erosion results from deforestation and overgrazing; desertification; surface water contaminated with raw sewage and other organic wastes; several endangered species of flora and fauna unique to the island 
				Malawi
			deforestation; land degradation; water pollution from agricultural runoff, sewage, industrial wastes; siltation of spawning grounds endangers fish populations 
				Malaysia
			air pollution from industrial and vehicular emissions; water pollution from raw sewage; deforestation; smoke/haze from Indonesian forest fires 
				Maldives
			depletion of freshwater aquifers threatens water supplies; global warming and sea level rise; coral reef bleaching 
				Mali
			deforestation; soil erosion; desertification; inadequate supplies of potable water; poaching 
				Malta
			limited natural fresh water resources; increasing reliance on desalination 
				Marshall Islands
			inadequate supplies of potable water; pollution of Majuro lagoon from household waste and discharges from fishing vessels 
				Mauritania
			overgrazing, deforestation, and soil erosion aggravated by drought are contributing to desertification; limited natural fresh water resources away from the Senegal, which is the only perennial river; locust infestation 
				Mauritius
			water pollution, degradation of coral reefs 
				Mayotte
			NA 
				Mexico
			scarcity of hazardous waste disposal facilities; rural to urban migration; natural fresh water resources scarce and polluted in north, inaccessible and poor quality in center and extreme southeast; raw sewage and industrial effluents polluting rivers in urban areas; deforestation; widespread erosion; desertification; deteriorating agricultural lands; serious air and water pollution in the national capital and urban centers along US-Mexico border; land subsidence in Valley of Mexico caused by groundwater depletion 
				note: the government considers the lack of clean water and deforestation national security issues 
				Micronesia, Federated States of
			overfishing, climate change, pollution 
				Moldova
			heavy use of agricultural chemicals, including banned pesticides such as DDT, has contaminated soil and groundwater; extensive soil erosion from poor farming methods 
				Monaco
			NA 
				Mongolia
			limited natural fresh water resources in some areas; the policies of former Communist regimes promoted rapid urbanization and industrial growth that had negative effects on the environment; the burning of soft coal in power plants and the lack of enforcement of environmental laws severely polluted the air in Ulaanbaatar; deforestation, overgrazing, and the converting of virgin land to agricultural production increased soil erosion from wind and rain; desertification and mining activities had a deleterious effect on the environment 
				Montenegro
			pollution of coastal waters from sewage outlets, especially in tourist-related areas such as Kotor 
				Montserrat
			land erosion occurs on slopes that have been cleared for cultivation 
				Morocco
			land degradation/desertification (soil erosion resulting from farming of marginal areas, overgrazing, destruction of vegetation); water supplies contaminated by raw sewage; siltation of reservoirs; oil pollution of coastal waters 
				Mozambique
			a long civil war and recurrent drought in the hinterlands have resulted in increased migration of the population to urban and coastal areas with adverse environmental consequences; desertification; pollution of surface and coastal waters; elephant poaching for ivory is a problem 
				Namibia
			limited natural fresh water resources; desertification; wildlife poaching; land degradation has led to few conservation areas 
				Nauru
			limited natural fresh water resources, roof storage tanks collect rainwater, but mostly dependent on a single, aging desalination plant; intensive phosphate mining during the past 90 years - mainly by a UK, Australia, and NZ consortium - has left the central 90% of Nauru a wasteland and threatens limited remaining land resources 
				Navassa Island
			NA 
				Nepal
			deforestation (overuse of wood for fuel and lack of alternatives); contaminated water (with human and animal wastes, agricultural runoff, and industrial effluents); wildlife conservation; vehicular emissions 
				Netherlands
			water pollution in the form of heavy metals, organic compounds, and nutrients such as nitrates and phosphates; air pollution from vehicles and refining activities; acid rain 
				Netherlands Antilles
			NA 
				New Caledonia
			erosion caused by mining exploitation and forest fires 
				New Zealand
			deforestation; soil erosion; native flora and fauna hard-hit by invasive species 
				Nicaragua
			deforestation; soil erosion; water pollution 
				Niger
			overgrazing; soil erosion; deforestation; desertification; wildlife populations (such as elephant, hippopotamus, giraffe, and lion) threatened because of poaching and habitat destruction 
				Nigeria
			soil degradation; rapid deforestation; urban air and water pollution; desertification; oil pollution - water, air, and soil; has suffered serious damage from oil spills; loss of arable land; rapid urbanization 
				Niue
			increasing attention to conservationist practices to counter loss of soil fertility from traditional slash and burn agriculture 
				Norfolk Island
			NA 
				Northern Mariana Islands
			contamination of groundwater on Saipan may contribute to disease; clean-up of landfill; protection of endangered species conflicts with development 
				Norway
			water pollution; acid rain damaging forests and adversely affecting lakes, threatening fish stocks; air pollution from vehicle emissions 
				Oman
			rising soil salinity; beach pollution from oil spills; limited natural fresh water resources 
				Pacific Ocean
			endangered marine species include the dugong, sea lion, sea otter, seals, turtles, and whales; oil pollution in Philippine Sea and South China Sea 
				Pakistan
			water pollution from raw sewage, industrial wastes, and agricultural runoff; limited natural fresh water resources; most of the population does not have access to potable water; deforestation; soil erosion; desertification 
				Palau
			inadequate facilities for disposal of solid waste; threats to the marine ecosystem from sand and coral dredging, illegal fishing practices, and overfishing 
				Panama
			water pollution from agricultural runoff threatens fishery resources; deforestation of tropical rain forest; land degradation and soil erosion threatens siltation of Panama Canal; air pollution in urban areas; mining threatens natural resources 
				Papua New Guinea
			rain forest subject to deforestation as a result of growing commercial demand for tropical timber; pollution from mining projects; severe drought 
				Paracel Islands
			NA 
				Paraguay
			deforestation; water pollution; inadequate means for waste disposal pose health risks for many urban residents; loss of wetlands 
				Peru
			deforestation (some the result of illegal logging); overgrazing of the slopes of the costa and sierra leading to soil erosion; desertification; air pollution in Lima; pollution of rivers and coastal waters from municipal and mining wastes 
				Philippines
			uncontrolled deforestation especially in watershed areas; soil erosion; air and water pollution in major urban centers; coral reef degradation; increasing pollution of coastal mangrove swamps that are important fish breeding grounds 
				Pitcairn Islands
			deforestation (only a small portion of the original forest remains because of burning and clearing for settlement) 
				Poland
			situation has improved since 1989 due to decline in heavy industry and increased environmental concern by post-Communist governments; air pollution nonetheless remains serious because of sulfur dioxide emissions from coal-fired power plants, and the resulting acid rain has caused forest damage; water pollution from industrial and municipal sources is also a problem, as is disposal of hazardous wastes; pollution levels should continue to decrease as industrial establishments bring their facilities up to EU code, but at substantial cost to business and the government 
				Portugal
			soil erosion; air pollution caused by industrial and vehicle emissions; water pollution, especially in coastal areas 
				Puerto Rico
			erosion; occasional drought causing water shortages 
				Qatar
			limited natural fresh water resources are increasing dependence on large-scale desalination facilities 
				Romania
			soil erosion and degradation; water pollution; air pollution in south from industrial effluents; contamination of Danube delta wetlands 
				Russia
			air pollution from heavy industry, emissions of coal-fired electric plants, and transportation in major cities; industrial, municipal, and agricultural pollution of inland waterways and seacoasts; deforestation; soil erosion; soil contamination from improper application of agricultural chemicals; scattered areas of sometimes intense radioactive contamination; groundwater contamination from toxic waste; urban solid waste management; abandoned stocks of obsolete pesticides 
				Rwanda
			deforestation results from uncontrolled cutting of trees for fuel; overgrazing; soil exhaustion; soil erosion; widespread poaching 
				Saint Barthelemy
			with no natural rivers or streams, fresh water is in short supply, especially in summer, and provided by desalinization of sea water, collection of rain water, or imported via water tanker 
				Saint Helena
			NA 
				Saint Kitts and Nevis
			NA 
				Saint Lucia
			deforestation; soil erosion, particularly in the northern region 
				Saint Martin
			fresh water supply is dependent on desalinization of sea water 
				Saint Pierre and Miquelon
			recent test drilling for oil in waters around Saint Pierre and Miquelon may bring future development that would impact the environment 
				Saint Vincent and the Grenadines
			pollution of coastal waters and shorelines from discharges by pleasure yachts and other effluents; in some areas, pollution is severe enough to make swimming prohibitive 
				Samoa
			soil erosion, deforestation, invasive species, overfishing 
				San Marino
			NA 
				Sao Tome and Principe
			deforestation; soil erosion and exhaustion 
				Saudi Arabia
			desertification; depletion of underground water resources; the lack of perennial rivers or permanent water bodies has prompted the development of extensive seawater desalination facilities; coastal pollution from oil spills 
				Senegal
			wildlife populations threatened by poaching; deforestation; overgrazing; soil erosion; desertification; overfishing 
				Serbia
			air pollution around Belgrade and other industrial cities; water pollution from industrial wastes dumped into the Sava which flows into the Danube 
				Seychelles
			water supply depends on catchments to collect rainwater 
				Sierra Leone
			rapid population growth pressuring the environment; overharvesting of timber, expansion of cattle grazing, and slash-and-burn agriculture have resulted in deforestation and soil exhaustion; civil war depleted natural resources; overfishing 
				Singapore
			industrial pollution; limited natural fresh water resources; limited land availability presents waste disposal problems; seasonal smoke/haze resulting from forest fires in Indonesia 
				Slovakia
			air pollution from metallurgical plants presents human health risks; acid rain damaging forests 
				Slovenia
			Sava River polluted with domestic and industrial waste; pollution of coastal waters with heavy metals and toxic chemicals; forest damage near Koper from air pollution (originating at metallurgical and chemical plants) and resulting acid rain 
				Solomon Islands
			deforestation; soil erosion; many of the surrounding coral reefs are dead or dying 
				Somalia
			famine; use of contaminated water contributes to human health problems; deforestation; overgrazing; soil erosion; desertification 
				South Africa
			lack of important arterial rivers or lakes requires extensive water conservation and control measures; growth in water usage outpacing supply; pollution of rivers from agricultural runoff and urban discharge; air pollution resulting in acid rain; soil erosion; desertification 
				South Georgia and the South Sandwich Islands
			NA 
				Southern Ocean
			increased solar ultraviolet radiation resulting from the Antarctic ozone hole in recent years, reducing marine primary productivity (phytoplankton) by as much as 15% and damaging the DNA of some fish; illegal, unreported, and unregulated fishing in recent years, especially the landing of an estimated five to six times more Patagonian toothfish than the regulated fishery, which is likely to affect the sustainability of the stock; large amount of incidental mortality of seabirds resulting from long-line fishing for toothfish 
				note: the now-protected fur seal population is making a strong comeback after severe overexploitation in the 18th and 19th centuries 
				Spain
			pollution of the Mediterranean Sea from raw sewage and effluents from the offshore production of oil and gas; water quality and quantity nationwide; air pollution; deforestation; desertification 
				Spratly Islands
			NA 
				Sri Lanka
			deforestation; soil erosion; wildlife populations threatened by poaching and urbanization; coastal degradation from mining activities and increased pollution; freshwater resources being polluted by industrial wastes and sewage runoff; waste disposal; air pollution in Colombo 
				Sudan
			inadequate supplies of potable water; wildlife populations threatened by excessive hunting; soil erosion; desertification; periodic drought 
				Suriname
			deforestation as timber is cut for export; pollution of inland waterways by small-scale mining activities 
				Svalbard
			NA 
				Swaziland
			limited supplies of potable water; wildlife populations being depleted because of excessive hunting; overgrazing; soil degradation; soil erosion 
				Sweden
			acid rain damage to soils and lakes; pollution of the North Sea and the Baltic Sea 
				Switzerland
			air pollution from vehicle emissions and open-air burning; acid rain; water pollution from increased use of agricultural fertilizers; loss of biodiversity 
				Syria
			deforestation; overgrazing; soil erosion; desertification; water pollution from raw sewage and petroleum refining wastes; inadequate potable water 
				Taiwan
			air pollution; water pollution from industrial emissions, raw sewage; contamination of drinking water supplies; trade in endangered species; low-level radioactive waste disposal 
				Tajikistan
			inadequate sanitation facilities; increasing levels of soil salinity; industrial pollution; excessive pesticides 
				Tanzania
			soil degradation; deforestation; desertification; destruction of coral reefs threatens marine habitats; recent droughts affected marginal agriculture; wildlife threatened by illegal hunting and trade, especially for ivory 
				Thailand
			air pollution from vehicle emissions; water pollution from organic and factory wastes; deforestation; soil erosion; wildlife populations threatened by illegal hunting 
				Timor-Leste
			widespread use of slash and burn agriculture has led to deforestation and soil erosion 
				Togo
			deforestation attributable to slash-and-burn agriculture and the use of wood for fuel; water pollution presents health hazards and hinders the fishing industry; air pollution increasing in urban areas 
				Tokelau
			limited natural resources and overcrowding are contributing to emigration to New Zealand 
				Tonga
			deforestation results as more and more land is being cleared for agriculture and settlement; some damage to coral reefs from starfish and indiscriminate coral and shell collectors; overhunting threatens native sea turtle populations 
				Trinidad and Tobago
			water pollution from agricultural chemicals, industrial wastes, and raw sewage; oil pollution of beaches; deforestation; soil erosion 
				Tunisia
			toxic and hazardous waste disposal is ineffective and poses health risks; water pollution from raw sewage; limited natural fresh water resources; deforestation; overgrazing; soil erosion; desertification 
				Turkey
			water pollution from dumping of chemicals and detergents; air pollution, particularly in urban areas; deforestation; concern for oil spills from increasing Bosporus ship traffic 
				Turkmenistan
			contamination of soil and groundwater with agricultural chemicals, pesticides; salination, water logging of soil due to poor irrigation methods; Caspian Sea pollution; diversion of a large share of the flow of the Amu Darya into irrigation contributes to that river's inability to replenish the Aral Sea; desertification 
				Turks and Caicos Islands
			limited natural fresh water resources, private cisterns collect rainwater 
				Tuvalu
			since there are no streams or rivers and groundwater is not potable, most water needs must be met by catchment systems with storage facilities (the Japanese Government has built one desalination plant and plans to build one other); beachhead erosion because of the use of sand for building materials; excessive clearance of forest undergrowth for use as fuel; damage to coral reefs from the spread of the Crown of Thorns starfish; Tuvalu is concerned about global increases in greenhouse gas emissions and their effect on rising sea levels, which threaten the country's underground water table; in 2000, the government appealed to Australia and New Zealand to take in Tuvaluans if rising sea levels should make evacuation necessary 
				Uganda
			draining of wetlands for agricultural use; deforestation; overgrazing; soil erosion; water hyacinth infestation in Lake Victoria; widespread poaching 
				Ukraine
			inadequate supplies of potable water; air and water pollution; deforestation; radiation contamination in the northeast from 1986 accident at Chornobyl' Nuclear Power Plant 
				United Arab Emirates
			lack of natural freshwater resources compensated by desalination plants; desertification; beach pollution from oil spills 
				United Kingdom
			continues to reduce greenhouse gas emissions (has met Kyoto Protocol target of a 12.5% reduction from 1990 levels and intends to meet the legally binding target and move toward a domestic goal of a 20% cut in emissions by 2010); by 2005 the government reduced the amount of industrial and commercial waste disposed of in landfill sites to 85% of 1998 levels and recycled or composted at least 25% of household waste, increasing to 33% by 2015 
				United States
			air pollution resulting in acid rain in both the US and Canada; the US is the largest single emitter of carbon dioxide from the burning of fossil fuels; water pollution from runoff of pesticides and fertilizers; limited natural fresh water resources in much of the western part of the country require careful management; desertification 
				United States Pacific Island Wildlife Refuges
				Baker, Howland, and Jarvis Islands, and Johnston Atoll: no natural fresh water resources 
				Kingman Reef: none 
				Midway Islands and Palmyra Atoll: NA 
				Uruguay
			water pollution from meat packing/tannery industry; inadequate solid/hazardous waste disposal 
				Uzbekistan
			shrinkage of the Aral Sea is resulting in growing concentrations of chemical pesticides and natural salts; these substances are then blown from the increasingly exposed lake bed and contribute to desertification; water pollution from industrial wastes and the heavy use of fertilizers and pesticides is the cause of many human health disorders; increasing soil salination; soil contamination from buried nuclear processing and agricultural chemicals, including DDT 
				Vanuatu
			most of the population does not have access to a reliable supply of potable water; deforestation 
				Venezuela
			sewage pollution of Lago de Valencia; oil and urban pollution of Lago de Maracaibo; deforestation; soil degradation; urban and industrial pollution, especially along the Caribbean coast; threat to the rainforest ecosystem from irresponsible mining operations 
				Vietnam
			logging and slash-and-burn agricultural practices contribute to deforestation and soil degradation; water pollution and overfishing threaten marine life populations; groundwater contamination limits potable water supply; growing urban industrialization and population migration are rapidly degrading environment in Hanoi and Ho Chi Minh City 
				Virgin Islands
			lack of natural freshwater resources 
				Wake Island
			NA 
				Wallis and Futuna
			deforestation (only small portions of the original forests remain) largely as a result of the continued use of wood as the main fuel source; as a consequence of cutting down the forests, the mountainous terrain of Futuna is particularly prone to erosion; there are no permanent settlements on Alofi because of the lack of natural fresh water resources 
				West Bank
			adequacy of fresh water supply; sewage treatment 
				Western Sahara
			sparse water and lack of arable land 
				World
			large areas subject to overpopulation, industrial disasters, pollution (air, water, acid rain, toxic substances), loss of vegetation (overgrazing, deforestation, desertification), loss of wildlife, soil degradation, soil depletion, erosion; global warming becoming a greater concern 
				Yemen
			limited natural fresh water resources; inadequate supplies of potable water; overgrazing; soil erosion; desertification 
				Zambia
			air pollution and resulting acid rain in the mineral extraction and refining region; chemical runoff into watersheds; poaching seriously threatens rhinoceros, elephant, antelope, and large cat populations; deforestation; soil erosion; desertification; lack of adequate water treatment presents human health risks 
				Zimbabwe
			deforestation; soil erosion; land degradation; air and water pollution; the black rhinoceros herd - once the largest concentration of the species in the world - has been significantly reduced by poaching; poor mining practices have led to toxic waste and heavy metal pollution  		
				This page was last updated on 19 March 2009
&nbsp; 
CIA - The World Factbook -- Field Listing - GDP - composition by sector
&nbsp; 
				    &nbsp; 
                    Field Listing - GDP - composition by sector
         Home 
          &nbsp;Reference Maps 
          &nbsp;Appendixes 
			Country
			GDP - composition by sector (%) 
				Afghanistan
				agriculture: 31% 
				industry: 26% 
				services: 43% 
				note: data exclude opium production (2008 est.) 
				Albania
				agriculture: 20.6% 
				industry: 19.9% 
				services: 59.5% (2008 est.) 
				Algeria
				agriculture: 8.1% 
				industry: 62.5% 
				services: 29.4% (2008 est.) 
				American Samoa
				agriculture: NA% 
				industry: NA% 
				services: NA% 
				Andorra
				agriculture: NA% 
				industry: NA% 
				services: NA% 
				Angola
				agriculture: 9.2% 
				industry: 65.8% 
				services: 24.6% (2005 est.) 
				Anguilla
				agriculture: 4% 
				industry: 18% 
				services: 78% (2002 est.) 
				Antigua and Barbuda
				agriculture: 3.8% 
				industry: 22% 
				services: 74.3% (2002 est.) 
				Argentina
				agriculture: 9.2% 
				industry: 34.1% 
				services: 56.7% (2008 est.) 
				Armenia
				agriculture: 17.2% 
				industry: 36.4% 
				services: 46.4% (2007 est.) 
				Aruba
				agriculture: 0.4% 
				industry: 33.3% 
				services: 66.3% (2002 est.) 
				Australia
				agriculture: 2.5% 
				industry: 26.4% 
				services: 71.1% (2008 est.) 
				Austria
				agriculture: 1.9% 
				industry: 30.6% 
				services: 67.4% (2008 est.) 
				Azerbaijan
				agriculture: 6% 
				industry: 62.6% 
				services: 31.4% (2008 est.) 
				Bahamas, The
				agriculture: 3% 
				industry: 7% 
				services: 90% (2001 est.) 
				Bahrain
				agriculture: 0.3% 
				industry: 43.6% 
				services: 56% (2007 est.) 
				Bangladesh
				agriculture: 19.1% 
				industry: 28.6% 
				services: 52.3% (2008 est.) 
				Barbados
				agriculture: 6% 
				industry: 16% 
				services: 78% (2000 est.) 
				Belarus
				agriculture: 8.4% 
				industry: 41.5% 
				services: 50.1% (2008 est.) 
				Belgium
				agriculture: 1% 
				industry: 24.2% 
				services: 74.9% (2008 est.) 
				Belize
				agriculture: 29% 
				industry: 16.9% 
				services: 54.1% (2008 est.) 
				Benin
				agriculture: 33.2% 
				industry: 14.5% 
				services: 52.3% (2007 est.) 
				Bermuda
				agriculture: 1% 
				industry: 10% 
				services: 89% (2002 est.) 
				Bhutan
				agriculture: 22.3% 
				industry: 37.9% 
				services: 39.8% (2006) 
				Bolivia
				agriculture: 11.3% 
				industry: 36.9% 
				services: 51.8% (2008 est.) 
				Bosnia and Herzegovina
				agriculture: 10.2% 
				industry: 23.9% 
				services: 66% (2006 est.) 
				Botswana
				agriculture: 1.6% 
				industry: 52.6% (including 36% mining) 
				services: 45.8% (2008 est.) 
				Brazil
				agriculture: 5.5% 
				industry: 28.5% 
				services: 66% (2008 est.) 
				British Virgin Islands
				agriculture: 1.8% 
				industry: 6.2% 
				services: 92% (1996 est.) 
				Brunei
				agriculture: 0.7% 
				industry: 75% 
				services: 25% (2005 est.) 
				Bulgaria
				agriculture: 4.6% 
				industry: 28.7% 
				services: 66.7% (2008 est.) 
				Burkina Faso
				agriculture: 29.1% 
				industry: 19.9% 
				services: 51% (2008 est.) 
				Burma
				agriculture: 40.9% 
				industry: 19.7% 
				services: 39.3% (2008 est.) 
				Burundi
				agriculture: 32.9% 
				industry: 21.3% 
				services: 45.8% (2008 est.) 
				Cambodia
				agriculture: 29% 
				industry: 30% 
				services: 41% (2007 est.) 
				Cameroon
				agriculture: 43.5% 
				industry: 16% 
				services: 40.5% (2008 est.) 
				Canada
				agriculture: 2% 
				industry: 28.4% 
				services: 69.6% (2008 est.) 
				Cape Verde
				agriculture: 9% 
				industry: 16.9% 
				services: 74.1% (2008 est.) 
				Cayman Islands
				agriculture: 1.4% 
				industry: 3.2% 
				services: 95.4% (1994 est.) 
				Central African Republic
				agriculture: 55% 
				industry: 20% 
				services: 25% (2001 est.) 
				Chad
				agriculture: 20.5% 
				industry: 48% 
				services: 31.5% (2008 est.) 
				Chile
				agriculture: 4.8% 
				industry: 50.5% 
				services: 44.7% (2008 est.) 
				China
				agriculture: 10.6% 
				industry: 49.2% 
				services: 40.2% (2008 est.) 
				Colombia
				agriculture: 9.4% 
				industry: 36.6% 
				services: 54% (2008 est.) 
				Comoros
				agriculture: 40% 
				industry: 4% 
				services: 56% (2001 est.) 
				Congo, Democratic Republic of the
				agriculture: 55% 
				industry: 11% 
				services: 34% (2000 est.) 
				Congo, Republic of the
				agriculture: 5.6% 
				industry: 57.1% 
				services: 37.3% (2006 est.) 
				Cook Islands
				agriculture: 15.1% 
				industry: 9.6% 
				services: 75.3% (2004) 
				Costa Rica
				agriculture: 7.6% 
				industry: 29.1% 
				services: 63.3% (2008 est.) 
				Cote d'Ivoire
				agriculture: 27.9% 
				industry: 21.9% 
				services: 50.1% (2008 est.) 
				Croatia
				agriculture: 7% 
				industry: 31.6% 
				services: 61.4% (2008 est.) 
				Cuba
				agriculture: 4.4% 
				industry: 22.8% 
				services: 72.8% (2008 est.) 
				Cyprus
				agriculture: 2.6% 
				industry: 19.1% 
				services: 78.3% (2008 est.) 
				Czech Republic
				agriculture: 2.6% 
				industry: 38.7% 
				services: 58.7% (2008 est.) 
				Denmark
				agriculture: 1.4% 
				industry: 25.9% 
				services: 72.7% (2008 est.) 
				Djibouti
				agriculture: 3.2% 
				industry: 14.9% 
				services: 81.9% (2006) 
				Dominica
				agriculture: 17.7% 
				industry: 32.8% 
				services: 49.5% (2004 est.) 
				Dominican Republic
				agriculture: 11.3% 
				industry: 23.5% 
				services: 65.2% (2008 est.) 
				Ecuador
				agriculture: 6.6% 
				industry: 33.9% 
				services: 59.5% (2008 est.) 
				Egypt
				agriculture: 13.4% 
				industry: 37.6% 
				services: 48.9% (2008 est.) 
				El Salvador
				agriculture: 11.2% 
				industry: 24.7% 
				services: 64.1% (2008 est.) 
				Equatorial Guinea
				agriculture: 2.7% 
				industry: 92.6% 
				services: 4.6% (2008 est.) 
				Eritrea
				agriculture: 17.4% 
				industry: 23.2% 
				services: 59.4% (2008 est.) 
				Estonia
				agriculture: 2.9% 
				industry: 32.3% 
				services: 64.8% (2008 est.) 
				Ethiopia
				agriculture: 45.9% 
				industry: 12.9% 
				services: 41.2% (2008 est.) 
				European Union
				agriculture: 2% 
				industry: 26.8% 
				services: 71.1% (2008 est.) 
				Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas)
				agriculture: 95% 
				industry: NA% 
				services: NA% 
				Faroe Islands
				agriculture: 27% 
				industry: 11% 
				services: 62% (1999) 
				Fiji
				agriculture: 8.9% 
				industry: 13.5% 
				services: 77.6% (2004 est.) 
				Finland
				agriculture: 2.8% 
				industry: 33.2% 
				services: 64% (2008 est.) 
				France
				agriculture: 2.2% 
				industry: 20.3% 
				services: 77.4% (2008 est.) 
				French Polynesia
				agriculture: 3.5% 
				industry: 20.4% 
				services: 76.1% (2005) 
				Gabon
				agriculture: 5.7% 
				industry: 57.2% 
				services: 37% (2008 est.) 
				Gambia, The
				agriculture: 33% 
				industry: 8.7% 
				services: 58.3% (2008 est.) 
				Gaza Strip
				agriculture: 8% 
				industry: 13% 
				services: 79% (includes West Bank) (2007 est.) 
				Georgia
				agriculture: 12.8% 
				industry: 28.4% 
				services: 58.8% (2008 est.) 
				Germany
				agriculture: 0.9% 
				industry: 30.1% 
				services: 69% (2008 est.) 
				Ghana
				agriculture: 37.3% 
				industry: 25.3% 
				services: 37.5% (2006 est.) 
				Gibraltar
				agriculture: NA% 
				industry: NA% 
				services: NA% 
				Greece
				agriculture: 3.5% 
				industry: 23.4% 
				services: 73.1% (2008 est.) 
				Greenland
				agriculture: NA% 
				industry: NA% 
				services: NA% 
				Grenada
				agriculture: 5.4% 
				industry: 18% 
				services: 76.6% (2003) 
				Guam
				agriculture: NA% 
				industry: NA% 
				services: NA% 
				Guatemala
				agriculture: 13.2% 
				industry: 25.8% 
				services: 61% (2008 est.) 
				Guernsey
				agriculture: 3% 
				industry: 10% 
				services: 87% (2000) 
				Guinea
				agriculture: 22.4% 
				industry: 40.9% 
				services: 36.6% (2008 est.) 
				Guinea-Bissau
				agriculture: 62% 
				industry: 12% 
				services: 26% (1999 est.) 
				Guyana
				agriculture: 31.9% 
				industry: 21% 
				services: 47.2% (2008 est.) 
				Haiti
				agriculture: 28% 
				industry: 20% 
				services: 52% (2004 est.) 
				Honduras
				agriculture: 13.4% 
				industry: 28.2% 
				services: 58.5% (2008 est.) 
				Hong Kong
				agriculture: 0% 
				industry: 7.9% 
				services: 92% (2008 est.) 
				Hungary
				agriculture: 3.2% 
				industry: 31.9% 
				services: 65% (2008 est.) 
				Iceland
				agriculture: 5% 
				industry: 26.5% 
				services: 68.5% (2008 est.) 
				India
				agriculture: 17.2% 
				industry: 29.1% 
				services: 53.7% (2008 est.) 
				Indonesia
				agriculture: 13.5% 
				industry: 45.6% 
				services: 40.8% (2008 est.) 
				Iran
				agriculture: 10.8% 
				industry: 44.3% 
				services: 44.9% (2008 est.) 
				Iraq
				agriculture: 5% 
				industry: 68% 
				services: 27% (2006 est.) 
				Ireland
				agriculture: 5% 
				industry: 46% 
				services: 49% (2002 est.) 
				Isle of Man
				agriculture: 1% 
				industry: 13% 
				services: 86% (2000 est.) 
				Israel
				agriculture: 2.7% 
				industry: 31.7% 
				services: 65.6% (2008 est.) 
				Italy
				agriculture: 2% 
				industry: 26.7% 
				services: 71.3% (2008 est.) 
				Jamaica
				agriculture: 5.2% 
				industry: 32.9% 
				services: 61.8% (2008 est.) 
				Japan
				agriculture: 1.4% 
				industry: 26.4% 
				services: 72.1% (2008 est.) 
				Jersey
				agriculture: 1% 
				industry: 2% 
				services: 97% (2005) 
				Jordan
				agriculture: 3.6% 
				industry: 10.1% 
				services: 86.3% (2008 est.) 
				Kazakhstan
				agriculture: 5.8% 
				industry: 39.4% 
				services: 54.7% (2008 est.) 
				Kenya
				agriculture: 23.8% 
				industry: 16.7% 
				services: 59.5% (2007 est.) 
				Kiribati
				agriculture: 8.9% 
				industry: 24.2% 
				services: 66.8% (2004) 
				Korea, North
				agriculture: 23.3% 
				industry: 43.1% 
				services: 33.6% (2002 est.) 
				Korea, South
				agriculture: 3% 
				industry: 39.5% 
				services: 57.6% (2008 est.) 
				Kosovo
				agriculture: 20% 
				industry: 20% 
				services: 60% (2007 est.) 
				Kuwait
				agriculture: 0.3% 
				industry: 52.2% 
				services: 47.5% (2008 est.) 
				Kyrgyzstan
				agriculture: 32.4% 
				industry: 18.6% 
				services: 49% (2008 est.) 
				Laos
				agriculture: 39.2% 
				industry: 34.3% 
				services: 26.6% (2008 est.) 
				Latvia
				agriculture: 3.3% 
				industry: 22.3% 
				services: 74.4% (2008 est.) 
				Lebanon
				agriculture: 5.1% 
				industry: 19.1% 
				services: 75.8% (2008 est.) 
				Lesotho
				agriculture: 15.1% 
				industry: 46.7% 
				services: 38.2% (2008 est.) 
				Liberia
				agriculture: 76.9% 
				industry: 5.4% 
				services: 17.7% (2002 est.) 
				Libya
				agriculture: 1.5% 
				industry: 61.7% 
				services: 36.8% (2008 est.) 
				Liechtenstein
				agriculture: 8% 
				industry: 39% 
				services: 54% (2007) 
				Lithuania
				agriculture: 4.3% 
				industry: 32.8% 
				services: 62.8% (2008 est.) 
				Luxembourg
				agriculture: 0.4% 
				industry: 13.6% 
				services: 86% (2007 est.) 
				Macau
				agriculture: 0.1% 
				industry: 2.8% 
				services: 97.1% (2007 est.) 
				Macedonia
				agriculture: 11.4% 
				industry: 27.2% 
				services: 61.4% (2008 est.) 
				Madagascar
				agriculture: 26% 
				industry: 15.9% 
				services: 58.1% (2008 est.) 
				Malawi
				agriculture: 38.1% 
				industry: 17.7% 
				services: 44.2% (2008 est.) 
				Malaysia
				agriculture: 9.7% 
				industry: 44.6% 
				services: 45.7% (2008 est.) 
				Maldives
				agriculture: 16% 
				industry: 7% 
				services: 77% (2006 est.) 
				Mali
				agriculture: 45% 
				industry: 17% 
				services: 38% (2001 est.) 
				Malta
				agriculture: 1.4% 
				industry: 18% 
				services: 80.6% (2007 est.) 
				Marshall Islands
				agriculture: 31.7% 
				industry: 14.9% 
				services: 53.4% (2004 est.) 
				Mauritania
				agriculture: 12.5% 
				industry: 46.7% 
				services: 40.7% (2008 est.) 
				Mauritius
				agriculture: 4.5% 
				industry: 24.9% 
				services: 70.6% (2008 est.) 
				Mayotte
				agriculture: NA% 
				industry: NA% 
				services: NA% 
				Mexico
				agriculture: 3.7% 
				industry: 34.1% 
				services: 62.2% (2008 est.) 
				Micronesia, Federated States of
				agriculture: 28.9% 
				industry: 15.2% 
				services: 55.9% (2004 est.) 
				Moldova
				agriculture: 17.3% 
				industry: 21.5% 
				services: 61.2% (2008 est.) 
				Monaco
				agriculture: 0% 
				industry: 4.9% 
				services: 95.1% (2005) 
				Mongolia
				agriculture: 20.6% 
				industry: 38.4% 
				services: 41% (2007) 
				Montenegro
				agriculture: NA% 
				industry: NA% 
				services: NA% 
				Montserrat
				agriculture: 1.2% 
				industry: 23.1% 
				services: 75.7% (1999 est.) 
				Morocco
				agriculture: 14.7% 
				industry: 38.9% 
				services: 46.5% (2008 est.) 
				Mozambique
				agriculture: 23.4% 
				industry: 30.7% 
				services: 45.9% (2008 est.) 
				Namibia
				agriculture: 10.4% 
				industry: 36.2% 
				services: 53.4% (2008 est.) 
				Nauru
				agriculture: NA% 
				industry: NA% 
				services: NA% 
				Nepal
				agriculture: 38% 
				industry: 20% 
				services: 42% (FY05/06 est.) 
				Netherlands
				agriculture: 2% 
				industry: 24.4% 
				services: 73.6% (2008 est.) 
				Netherlands Antilles
				agriculture: 1% 
				industry: 15% 
				services: 84% (2000 est.) 
				New Caledonia
				agriculture: 15% 
				industry: 8.8% 
				services: 76.2% (2003) 
				New Zealand
				agriculture: 4.4% 
				industry: 26% 
				services: 69.6% (2008 est.) 
				Nicaragua
				agriculture: 17% 
				industry: 26.1% 
				services: 56.9% (2008 est.) 
				Niger
				agriculture: 39% 
				industry: 17% 
				services: 44% (2001) 
				Nigeria
				agriculture: 18% 
				industry: 50.9% 
				services: 31.1% (2008 est.) 
				Niue
				agriculture: 23.5% 
				industry: 26.9% 
				services: 49.5% (2003) 
				Northern Mariana Islands
				agriculture: NA% 
				industry: NA% 
				services: NA% 
				Norway
				agriculture: 2.4% 
				industry: 40.7% 
				services: 56.8% (2008 est.) 
				Oman
				agriculture: 2.1% 
				industry: 37.2% 
				services: 60.7% (2008 est.) 
				Pakistan
				agriculture: 20.4% 
				industry: 26.6% 
				services: 53% (2008 est.) 
				Palau
				agriculture: 6.2% 
				industry: 12% 
				services: 81.8% (2003) 
				Panama
				agriculture: 6.2% 
				industry: 16.1% 
				services: 77.6% (2008 est.) 
				Papua New Guinea
				agriculture: 32.8% 
				industry: 36.5% 
				services: 30.6% (2008 est.) 
				Paraguay
				agriculture: 23.1% 
				industry: 17.2% 
				services: 59.6% (2008 est.) 
				Peru
				agriculture: 8.5% 
				industry: 21.2% 
				services: 70.3% (2008 est.) 
				Philippines
				agriculture: 14.7% 
				industry: 31.6% 
				services: 53.7% (2008 est.) 
				Poland
				agriculture: 4% 
				industry: 31.3% 
				services: 64.7% (2008 est.) 
				Portugal
				agriculture: 3% 
				industry: 25.6% 
				services: 71.5% (2008 est.) 
				Puerto Rico
				agriculture: 1% 
				industry: 45% 
				services: 54% (2002 est.) 
				Qatar
				agriculture: 0.1% 
				industry: 79.4% 
				services: 20.5% (2008 est.) 
				Romania
				agriculture: 8.1% 
				industry: 36% 
				services: 55.9% (2008 est.) 
				Russia
				agriculture: 4.1% 
				industry: 41.1% 
				services: 54.8% (2007 est.) 
				Rwanda
				agriculture: 35% 
				industry: 22.1% 
				services: 42.9% (2008 est.) 
				Saint Helena
				agriculture: NA% 
				industry: NA% 
				services: NA% 
				Saint Kitts and Nevis
				agriculture: 3.5% 
				industry: 25.8% 
				services: 70.7% (2001) 
				Saint Lucia
				agriculture: 5% 
				industry: 15% 
				services: 80% (2005 est.) 
				Saint Martin
				agriculture: 1% 
				industry: 15% 
				services: 84% (2000) 
				Saint Pierre and Miquelon
				agriculture: NA% 
				industry: NA% 
				services: NA% 
				Saint Vincent and the Grenadines
				agriculture: 10% 
				industry: 26% 
				services: 64% (2001 est.) 
				Samoa
				agriculture: 11.6% 
				industry: 13.1% 
				services: 75.3% (2004 est.) 
				San Marino
				agriculture: NA% 
				industry: NA% 
				services: NA% 
				Sao Tome and Principe
				agriculture: 14.6% 
				industry: 14.6% 
				services: 70.8% (2008 est.) 
				Saudi Arabia
				agriculture: 3.1% 
				industry: 61.6% 
				services: 35.4% (2008 est.) 
				Senegal
				agriculture: 16% 
				industry: 19.4% 
				services: 64.6% (2008 est.) 
				Serbia
				agriculture: 12.3% 
				industry: 24.2% 
				services: 63.5% (2007 est.) 
				Seychelles
				agriculture: 1.9% 
				industry: 28.3% 
				services: 69.9% (2008 est.) 
				Sierra Leone
				agriculture: 49% 
				industry: 31% 
				services: 21% (2001 est.) 
				Singapore
				agriculture: 0% 
				industry: 33.2% 
				services: 66.8% (2008 est.) 
				Slovakia
				agriculture: 2.6% 
				industry: 33.4% 
				services: 64% (2008 est.) 
				Slovenia
				agriculture: 2.2% 
				industry: 34.2% 
				services: 63.6% (2008 est.) 
				Solomon Islands
				agriculture: 42% 
				industry: 11% 
				services: 47% (2000 est.) 
				Somalia
				agriculture: 65% 
				industry: 10% 
				services: 25% (2000 est.) 
				South Africa
				agriculture: 3.4% 
				industry: 31.3% 
				services: 65.3% (2008 est.) 
				Spain
				agriculture: 3.6% 
				industry: 28.9% 
				services: 67.5% (2008 est.) 
				Sri Lanka
				agriculture: 15.5% 
				industry: 27% 
				services: 57.5% (2008 est.) 
				Sudan
				agriculture: 32.9% 
				industry: 31.2% 
				services: 36% (2008 est.) 
				Suriname
				agriculture: 10.8% 
				industry: 24.4% 
				services: 64.8% (2005 est.) 
				Swaziland
				agriculture: 11.9% 
				industry: 45.1% 
				services: 43% (2008 est.) 
				Sweden
				agriculture: 1.5% 
				industry: 28.9% 
				services: 69.6% (2008 est.) 
				Switzerland
				agriculture: 1.5% 
				industry: 34% 
				services: 64.5% (2003 est.) 
				Syria
				agriculture: 22.5% 
				industry: 27.9% 
				services: 49.6% (2008 est.) 
				Taiwan
				agriculture: 1.5% 
				industry: 27.8% 
				services: 70.7% (2008 est.) 
				Tajikistan
				agriculture: 23% 
				industry: 29.4% 
				services: 47.6% (2008 est.) 
				Tanzania
				agriculture: 27% 
				industry: 22.7% 
				services: 50.3% (2008 est.) 
				Thailand
				agriculture: 11.4% 
				industry: 44.5% 
				services: 44.1% (2008 est.) 
				Timor-Leste
				agriculture: 32.2% 
				industry: 12.8% 
				services: 55% (2005) 
				Togo
				agriculture: 40% 
				industry: 25% 
				services: 35% (2008 est.) 
				Tokelau
				agriculture: NA% 
				industry: NA% 
				services: NA% 
				Tonga
				agriculture: 25% 
				industry: 17% 
				services: 57% (FY05/06 est.) 
				Trinidad and Tobago
				agriculture: 0.5% 
				industry: 47.9% 
				services: 51.6% (2008 est.) 
				Tunisia
				agriculture: 10.8% 
				industry: 28.3% 
				services: 61% (2008 est.) 
				Turkey
				agriculture: 8.5% 
				industry: 28.6% 
				services: 62.9% (2008 est.) 
				Turkmenistan
				agriculture: 10.7% 
				industry: 38.8% 
				services: 50.4% (2008 est.) 
				Turks and Caicos Islands
				agriculture: NA% 
				industry: NA% 
				services: NA% 
				Tuvalu
				agriculture: 16.6% 
				industry: 27.2% 
				services: 56.2% (2002) 
				Uganda
				agriculture: 29% 
				industry: 24.8% 
				services: 46.2% (2008 est.) 
				Ukraine
				agriculture: 9.3% 
				industry: 31.7% 
				services: 58.9% (2008 est.) 
				United Arab Emirates
				agriculture: 1.6% 
				industry: 61.8% 
				services: 36.6% (2008 est.) 
				United Kingdom
				agriculture: 0.9% 
				industry: 22.8% 
				services: 76.2% (2008 est.) 
				United States
				agriculture: 1.2% 
				industry: 19.6% 
				services: 79.2% (2008 est.) 
				Uruguay
				agriculture: 9.8% 
				industry: 32.8% 
				services: 57.4% (2008 est.) 
				Uzbekistan
				agriculture: 28.2% 
				industry: 33.9% 
				services: 37.9% (2008 est.) 
				Vanuatu
				agriculture: 26% 
				industry: 12% 
				services: 62% (2000 est.) 
				Venezuela
				agriculture: 3.6% 
				industry: 35.3% 
				services: 61.1% (2008 est.) 
				Vietnam
				agriculture: 19% 
				industry: 42.7% 
				services: 38.4% (2008 est.) 
				Virgin Islands
				agriculture: 1% 
				industry: 19% 
				services: 80% (2003 est.) 
				Wallis and Futuna
				agriculture: NA% 
				industry: NA% 
				services: NA% 
				West Bank
				agriculture: 8% 
				industry: 13% 
				services: 79% (includes Gaza Strip) (2007 est.) 
				Western Sahara
				agriculture: NA% 
				industry: NA% 
				services: 40% 
				World
				agriculture: 4% 
				industry: 32% 
				services: 64% (2008 est.) 
				Yemen
				agriculture: 9.4% 
				industry: 52.4% 
				services: 38.1% (2008 est.) 
				Zambia
				agriculture: 16.7% 
				industry: 26% 
				services: 57.3% (2008 est.) 
				Zimbabwe
				agriculture: 18.1% 
				industry: 22.6% 
				services: 59.3% (2008 est.)  		
				This page was last updated on 19 March 2009
&nbsp; 
CIA - The World Factbook -- Field Listing - Inflation rate (consumer prices)
&nbsp; 
				    &nbsp; 
                    Field Listing - Inflation rate (consumer prices)
         Home 
          &nbsp;Reference Maps 
          &nbsp;Appendixes 
          		&nbsp;Rank Order List
			Country
			Inflation rate (consumer prices) (%) 
				Afghanistan
			13% (2007 est.) 
				Albania
			4% (2008 est.) 
				Algeria
			3.6% (2008 est.) 
				American Samoa
			NA% 
				Andorra
				Angola
			12.5% (2008 est.) 
				Anguilla
			5.3% (2006 est.) 
				Antigua and Barbuda
			1.5% (2007 est.) 
				Argentina
			22% based on non-official estimates; the much lower official rate lacks credibility (2008 est.) 
				Armenia
			10.2% (2008 est.) 
				Aruba
				Australia
			4.7% (2008 est.) 
				Austria
			3.7% (2008 est.) 
				Azerbaijan
			21.6% (2008 est.) 
				Bahamas, The
			2.4% (2007 est.) 
				Bahrain
			7% (2008 est.) 
				Bangladesh
			9.4% (2008 est.) 
				Barbados
			5.5% (2007 est.) 
				Belarus
			15.5% (2008 est.) 
				Belgium
				Belize
			4.5% (2008 est.) 
				Benin
			5.2% (2008 est.) 
				Bermuda
			2.8% (November 2005) 
				Bhutan
			4.9% (2007 est.) 
				Bolivia
			11.5% (2008 est.) 
				Bosnia and Herzegovina
			8% (2008 est.) 
				Botswana
			12.5% (2008 est.) 
				Brazil
			5.8% (2008 est.) 
				British Virgin Islands
				Brunei
			0.3% (2007 est.) 
				Bulgaria
				Burkina Faso
			7.3% (2008 est.) 
				Burma
			27.3% (2008 est.) 
				Burundi
			12% (2008 est.) 
				Cambodia
			20.2% (2008 est.) 
				Cameroon
			4.4% (2008 est.) 
				Canada
			3% (2008 est.) 
				Cape Verde
			5% (2008 est.) 
				Cayman Islands
				Central African Republic
			0.9% (2007 est.) 
				Chad
			10% (2008 est.) 
				Chile
			8.8% (2008 est.) 
				China
			6% (2008 est.) 
				Colombia
			7.7% (2008 est.) 
				Comoros
			3% (2007 est.) 
				Congo, Democratic Republic of the
			16.7% (2007 est.) 
				Congo, Republic of the
			5% (2008 est.) 
				Cook Islands
			2.1% (2005 est.) 
				Costa Rica
			13.9% (2008 est.) 
				Cote d'Ivoire
			6.1% (2008 est.) 
				Croatia
			6.3% (2008 est.) 
				Cuba
			4.2% (2008 est.) 
				Cyprus
			5.1% (2008 est.) 
				Czech Republic
				Denmark
			3.5% (2008 est.) 
				Djibouti
			5% (2007 est.) 
				Dominica
			2.7% (2007 est.) 
				Dominican Republic
			12.2% (2008 est.) 
				Ecuador
			8.6% (2008 est.) 
				Egypt
			18% (2008 est.) 
				El Salvador
			4.7% (2008 est.) 
				Equatorial Guinea
			7.5% (2008 est.) 
				Eritrea
			18% (2008 est.) 
				Estonia
			10.4% (2008 est.) 
				Ethiopia
			41% (2008 est.) 
				European Union
			3% (2008 est.) 
				Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas)
				Faroe Islands
				Fiji
				Finland
			4.1% (2008 est.) 
				France
			1% (2008 est.) 
				French Polynesia
				Gabon
			5% (2008 est.) 
				Gambia, The
			6% (2008 est.) 
				Gaza Strip
			11.5% (includes West Bank) (2008) 
				Georgia
			11.3% (2008 est.) 
				Germany
			2.8% (2008 est.) 
				Ghana
			16.4% (2008 est.) 
				Gibraltar
				Greece
			4.4% (2008 est.) 
				Greenland
			1% (2005 est.) 
				Grenada
			3.7% (2007 est.) 
				Guam
			2.5% (2005 est.) 
				Guatemala
			12.2% (2008 est.) 
				Guernsey
			3.4% (June 2006) 
				Guinea
			30% (2008 est.) 
				Guinea-Bissau
			3.8% (2007 est.) 
				Guyana
			7.8% (2008 est.) 
				Haiti
			15.8% (2008 est.) 
				Honduras
			11.9% (2008 est.) 
				Hong Kong
			2.1% (2008 est.) 
				Hungary
			6.1% (2008 est.) 
				Iceland
			13.4% (2008 est.) 
				India
			7.8% (2008 est.) 
				Indonesia
			10.5% (2008 est.) 
				Iran
				note: official Iranian estimate (2008 est.) 
				Iraq
			6.8% (2008 est.) 
				Ireland
			4% (2008 est.) 
				Isle of Man
			3.1% (December 2006 est.) 
				Israel
			4.7% (2008 est.) 
				Italy
			3.6% (2008 est.) 
				Jamaica
			22.5% (2008 est.) 
				Japan
			1.8% (2008 est.) 
				Jersey
			3.7% (December 2006) 
				Jordan
			14.9% (2008 est.) 
				Kazakhstan
			18.6% (2008 est.) 
				Kenya
			25.5% (2008 est.) 
				Kiribati
			0.2% (2007 est.) 
				Korea, North
			NA% 
				Korea, South
			4.7% (2008 est.) 
				Kosovo
			5.3% (2007 est.) 
				Kuwait
			11.7% (2008 est.) 
				Kyrgyzstan
			22.5% (2008 est.) 
				Laos
			8.5% (2008 est.) 
				Latvia
			10.5% (2008 est.) 
				Lebanon
			10% (2008 est.) 
				Lesotho
			10% (2008 est.) 
				Liberia
			11.2% (2007 est.) 
				Libya
			10.5% (2008 est.) 
				Liechtenstein
				Lithuania
			11% (2008 est.) 
				Luxembourg
			4% (2008 est.) 
				Macau
			6.2% (December 2008) 
				Macedonia
			8.4% (2008 est.) 
				Madagascar
			9.2% (2008 est.) 
				Malawi
			9% (2008 est.) 
				Malaysia
				note: approximately 30% of goods are price-controlled (2008 est.) 
				Maldives
			11% (June 2008 est.) 
				Mali
			2.5% (2007 est.) 
				Malta
			4.4% (2008 est.) 
				Marshall Islands
			12.9% (2008 est.) 
				Mauritania
			7.3% (2007 est.) 
				Mauritius
			10.1% (2008 est.) 
				Mayotte
				Mexico
			6.2% (2008 est.) 
				Micronesia, Federated States of
				Moldova
				Monaco
				Mongolia
			10.5% (2008 est.) 
				Montenegro
				Montserrat
			2.6% (2002 est.) 
				Morocco
			4.6% (2008 est.) 
				Mozambique
			11.2% (2008 est.) 
				Namibia
			10.3% (2008 est.) 
				Nauru
				Nepal
			6.4% (2007 est.) 
				Netherlands
			1.5% (2008 est.) 
				Netherlands Antilles
			2.1% (2003 est.) 
				New Caledonia
			1.4% (2000 est.) 
				New Zealand
			4.3% (2008 est.) 
				Nicaragua
			20.6% (2008 est.) 
				Niger
			0.1% (2007 est.) 
				Nigeria
			10.6% (2008 est.) 
				Niue
				Northern Mariana Islands
				Norway
			3.6% (2008 est.) 
				Oman
			12.5% (2008 est.) 
				Pakistan
			20.8% (2008 est.) 
				Palau
			2.7% (2005 est.) 
				Panama
			10.6% (2008 est.) 
				Papua New Guinea
			8.8% (2008 est.) 
				Paraguay
			11% (2008 est.) 
				Peru
			6.7% (2008 est.) 
				Philippines
			9.3% (2008 est.) 
				Poland
			4.3% (2008 est.) 
				Portugal
			2.9% (2008 est.) 
				Puerto Rico
			6.5% (2003 est.) 
				Qatar
			15.2% (2008 est.) 
				Romania
			7.8% (2008 est.) 
				Russia
			13.9% (2008 est.) 
				Rwanda
			9.5% (2008 est.) 
				Saint Helena
			3.2% (1997 est.) 
				Saint Kitts and Nevis
			4.5% (2007 est.) 
				Saint Lucia
			1.9% (2007 est.) 
				Saint Pierre and Miquelon
				Saint Vincent and the Grenadines
			6.1% (2007 est.) 
				Samoa
			6% (2007 est.) 
				San Marino
				Sao Tome and Principe
			27% (2008 est.) 
				Saudi Arabia
			10.3% (2008 est.) 
				Senegal
			6.6% (2008 est.) 
				Serbia
				Seychelles
			25.8% (2008 est.) 
				Sierra Leone
			11.7% (2007 est.) 
				Singapore
			4.3% (2008 est.) 
				Slovakia
				Slovenia
			6% (2008 est.) 
				Solomon Islands
			6.3% (2007 est.) 
				Somalia
			NA%; note - businesses print their own money, so inflation rates cannot be easily determined 
				South Africa
			11.3% (2008 est.) 
				Spain
			1.4% (2008 est.) 
				Sri Lanka
			14.4% (2008 est.) 
				Sudan
			16.5% (2008 est.) 
				Suriname
			6.4% (2007 est.) 
				Swaziland
			12.7% (2008 est.) 
				Sweden
			1.6% (November 2008 est.) 
				Switzerland
			2.4% (2008 est.) 
				Syria
			14.9% (2008 est.) 
				Taiwan
			3.7% (2008 est.) 
				Tajikistan
			21% (2008 est.) 
				Tanzania
			9.3% (2008 est.) 
				Thailand
			5.5% (2008 est.) 
				Timor-Leste
			7.8% (2007 est.) 
				Togo
			9.8% (2008 est.) 
				Tokelau
			NA% 
				Tonga
			5.9% (2007 est.) 
				Trinidad and Tobago
			14.5% (2008 est.) 
				Tunisia
			5% (2008 est.) 
				Turkey
			10.2% (2008 est.) 
				Turkmenistan
			18% (2008 est.) 
				Turks and Caicos Islands
				Tuvalu
			3.8% (2006 est.) 
				Uganda
			10.5% (2008 est.) 
				Ukraine
			25% (2008 est.) 
				United Arab Emirates
			14.4% (2008 est.) 
				United Kingdom
			3.8% (2008 est.) 
				United States
			4.2% (2008 est.) 
				Uruguay
				Uzbekistan
			13.5% officially, but 38% based on analysis of consumer prices (2008 est.) 
				Vanuatu
			3.9% (2007 est.) 
				Venezuela
			31% (2008 est.) 
				Vietnam
			24.5% (2008 est.) 
				Virgin Islands
				Wallis and Futuna
				West Bank
			11.5% (includes Gaza Strip) (2008) 
				Western Sahara
			NA% 
				World
			developed countries 1% to 4% typically; developing countries 5% to 20% typically; national inflation rates vary widely in individual cases, from declining prices in Japan to hyperinflation in one Third World country (Zimbabwe); inflation rates have declined for most countries for the last several years, held in check by increasing international competition from several low wage countries (2005 est.) 
				Yemen
			18% (2008 est.) 
				Zambia
			11.8% (2008 est.) 
				Zimbabwe
			11.2 million% (2008 est.)  		
				This page was last updated on 19 March 2009
&nbsp; 
CIA - The World Factbook -- Field Listing - Net migration rate
&nbsp; 
				    &nbsp; 
                    Field Listing - Net migration rate
         Home 
          &nbsp;Reference Maps 
          &nbsp;Appendixes 
          		&nbsp;Rank Order List
			Country
			Net migration rate (migrant(s)/1,000 population) 
				Afghanistan
			21 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2009 est.) 
				Albania
			-4.28 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2009 est.) 
				Algeria
			-0.29 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2009 est.) 
				American Samoa
			-6.99 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2009 est.) 
				Andorra
			6.89 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2009 est.) 
				Angola
			1.34 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2009 est.) 
				Anguilla
			14.06 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2009 est.) 
				Antigua and Barbuda
			2.38 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2009 est.) 
				Argentina
			0 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2009 est.) 
				Armenia
			-4.56 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2009 est.) 
				Aruba
			9.7 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2009 est.) 
				Australia
			6.23 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2009 est.) 
				Austria
			1.85 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2009 est.) 
				Azerbaijan
			-1.69 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2009 est.) 
				Bahamas, The
			-2.13 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2009 est.) 
				Bahrain
			0.2 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2009 est.) 
				Bangladesh
			-2.53 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2009 est.) 
				Barbados
			-0.31 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2009 est.) 
				Belarus
			0.38 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2009 est.) 
				Belgium
			1.22 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2009 est.) 
				Belize
			NA (2009 est.) 
				Benin
			0 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2009 est.) 
				Bermuda
			2.2 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2009 est.) 
				Bhutan
			NA (2009 est.) 
				Bolivia
			-1.05 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2009 est.) 
				Bosnia and Herzegovina
			3.17 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2009 est.) 
				Botswana
			5 migrant(s)/1,000 population 
				note: there is an increasing flow of Zimbabweans into South Africa and Botswana in search of better economic opportunities (2009 est.) 
				Brazil
			-0.09 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2009 est.) 
				British Virgin Islands
			8.13 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2009 est.) 
				Brunei
			2.69 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2009 est.) 
				Bulgaria
			-3.11 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2009 est.) 
				Burkina Faso
			NA (2009 est.) 
				Burma
			NA (2009 est.) 
				Burundi
			4.04 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2009 est.) 
				Cambodia
			NA (2009 est.) 
				Cameroon
			NA (2009 est.) 
				Canada
			5.63 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2009 est.) 
				Cape Verde
			-11.67 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2009 est.) 
				Cayman Islands
			16.48 migrant(s)/1,000 population 
				note: major destination for Cubans trying to migrate to the US (2009 est.) 
				Central African Republic
			NA (2009 est.) 
				Chad
			-4.08 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2009 est.) 
				Chile
			NA (2009 est.) 
				China
			-0.39 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2009 est.) 
				Christmas Island
			NA (2009 est.) 
				Cocos (Keeling) Islands
			NA (2009 est.) 
				Colombia
			-0.26 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2009 est.) 
				Comoros
			NA (2009 est.) 
				Congo, Democratic Republic of the
			1.07 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2009 est.) 
				Congo, Republic of the
			-1.82 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2009 est.) 
				Costa Rica
			0.47 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2009 est.) 
				Cote d'Ivoire
			NA (2009 est.) 
				Croatia
			1.59 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2009 est.) 
				Cuba
			-1.56 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2009 est.) 
				Cyprus
			0.42 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2009 est.) 
				Czech Republic
			0.97 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2009 est.) 
				Denmark
			2.48 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2009 est.) 
				Djibouti
			NA (2009 est.) 
				Dominica
			-5.45 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2009 est.) 
				Dominican Republic
			-2.22 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2009 est.) 
				Ecuador
			-0.81 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2009 est.) 
				Egypt
			-0.2 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2009 est.) 
				El Salvador
			-3.27 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2009 est.) 
				Equatorial Guinea
			NA (2009 est.) 
				Eritrea
			NA (2009 est.) 
				Estonia
			-3.26 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2009 est.) 
				Ethiopia
			-0.02 migrant(s)/1,000 population 
				note: repatriation of Ethiopian refugees residing in Sudan is expected to continue for several years; some Sudanese, Somali, and Eritrean refugees, who fled to Ethiopia from the fighting or famine in their own countries, continue to return to their homes (2009 est.) 
				European Union
			1.46 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2009 est.) 
				Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas)
			NA (2009 est.) 
				Faroe Islands
			-0.41 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2009 est.) 
				Fiji
			-2.47 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2009 est.) 
				Finland
			0.68 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2009 est.) 
				France
			1.48 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2009 est.) 
				French Polynesia
			2.73 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2009 est.) 
				Gabon
			-3.48 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2009 est.) 
				Gambia, The
			0.3 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2009 est.) 
				Gaza Strip
			0 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2009 est.) 
				Georgia
			-4.26 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2009 est.) 
				Germany
			2.19 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2009 est.) 
				Ghana
			-0.53 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2009 est.) 
				Gibraltar
			0 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2009 est.) 
				Greece
			2.33 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2009 est.) 
				Greenland
			-5.99 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2009 est.) 
				Grenada
			-10.55 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2009 est.) 
				Guam
			NA (2009 est.) 
				Guatemala
			-2.21 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2009 est.) 
				Guernsey
			3.8 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2009 est.) 
				Guinea
			-0.8 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2009 est.) 
				Guinea-Bissau
			0 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2009 est.) 
				Guyana
			-7.44 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2009 est.) 
				Haiti
			-2.07 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2009 est.) 
				Honduras
			-1.3 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2009 est.) 
				Hong Kong
			4.38 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2009 est.) 
				Hungary
			0.87 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2009 est.) 
				Iceland
			0.83 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2009 est.) 
				India
			-0.05 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2009 est.) 
				Indonesia
			-1.24 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2009 est.) 
				Iran
			-2.62 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2009 est.) 
				Iraq
			NA (2009 est.) 
				Ireland
			4.71 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2009 est.) 
				Isle of Man
			5.23 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2009 est.) 
				Israel
			2.37 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2009 est.) 
				Italy
			2.06 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2009 est.) 
				Jamaica
			-5.7 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2009 est.) 
				Japan
			NA (2009 est.) 
				Jersey
			2.73 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2009 est.) 
				Jordan
			5.83 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2009 est.) 
				Kazakhstan
			-3.3 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2009 est.) 
				Kenya
			0 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2009 est.) 
				Kiribati
			NA (2009 est.) 
				Korea, North
			-0.09 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2009 est.) 
				Korea, South
			-0.33 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2009 est.) 
				Kuwait
			16.02 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2009 est.) 
				Kyrgyzstan
			-2.57 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2009 est.) 
				Laos
			NA (2009 est.) 
				Latvia
			-2.3 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2009 est.) 
				Lebanon
			NA (2009 est.) 
				Lesotho
			-0.78 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2009 est.) 
				Liberia
			5.13 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2009 est.) 
				Libya
			NA (2009 est.) 
				Liechtenstein
			4.66 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2009 est.) 
				Lithuania
			-0.72 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2009 est.) 
				Luxembourg
			8.44 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2009 est.) 
				Macau
			14.56 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2009 est.) 
				Macedonia
			-0.52 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2009 est.) 
				Madagascar
			NA (2009 est.) 
				Malawi
			NA (2009 est.) 
				Malaysia
			NA 
				note: does not reflect net flow of an unknown number of illegal immigrants from other countries in the region (2009 est.) 
				Maldives
			-12.58 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2009 est.) 
				Mali
			-5.67 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2009 est.) 
				Malta
			2.02 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2009 est.) 
				Marshall Islands
			-5.41 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2009 est.) 
				Mauritania
			-0.96 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2009 est.) 
				Mauritius
			-0.06 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2009 est.) 
				Mayotte
			1.11 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2009 est.) 
				Mexico
			-3.61 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2009 est.) 
				Micronesia, Federated States of
			-21.03 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2009 est.) 
				Moldova
			-1.13 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2009 est.) 
				Monaco
			7.58 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2009 est.) 
				Mongolia
			NA (2009 est.) 
				Montserrat
			NA (2009 est.) 
				Morocco
			-0.72 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2009 est.) 
				Mozambique
			NA (2009 est.) 
				Namibia
			0.3 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2009 est.) 
				Nauru
			NA (2009 est.) 
				Nepal
			-3.39 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2009 est.) 
				Netherlands
			2.46 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2009 est.) 
				Netherlands Antilles
			-0.39 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2009 est.) 
				New Caledonia
			NA 
				note: there has been steady emigration from Wallis and Futuna to New Caledonia (2009 est.) 
				New Zealand
			2.46 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2009 est.) 
				Nicaragua
			-1.11 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2009 est.) 
				Niger
			-0.57 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2009 est.) 
				Nigeria
			-0.1 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2009 est.) 
				Niue
			NA (2009 est.) 
				Norfolk Island
			NA (2009 est.) 
				Northern Mariana Islands
			6.47 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2009 est.) 
				Norway
			1.71 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2009 est.) 
				Oman
			0.24 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2009 est.) 
				Pakistan
			-0.48 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2009 est.) 
				Palau
			0.96 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2009 est.) 
				Panama
			-0.49 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2009 est.) 
				Papua New Guinea
			NA (2009 est.) 
				Paraguay
			-0.07 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2009 est.) 
				Peru
			-0.95 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2009 est.) 
				Philippines
			-1.34 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2009 est.) 
				Pitcairn Islands
			NA (2009 est.) 
				Poland
			-0.47 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2009 est.) 
				Portugal
			3.14 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2009 est.) 
				Puerto Rico
			-0.96 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2009 est.) 
				Qatar
			-3.58 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2009 est.) 
				Romania
			-0.13 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2009 est.) 
				Russia
			0.28 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2009 est.) 
				Rwanda
			2.17 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2009 est.) 
				Saint Helena
			NA (2009 est.) 
				Saint Kitts and Nevis
			-1.15 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2009 est.) 
				Saint Lucia
			-4.14 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2009 est.) 
				Saint Pierre and Miquelon
			-4.96 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2009 est.) 
				Saint Vincent and the Grenadines
			-11.8 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2009 est.) 
				Samoa
			-8.81 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2009 est.) 
				San Marino
			10.32 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2009 est.) 
				Sao Tome and Principe
			-1.81 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2009 est.) 
				Saudi Arabia
			-7.6 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2009 est.) 
				Senegal
			0 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2009 est.) 
				Seychelles
			1.05 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2009 est.) 
				Sierra Leone
			0 migrant(s)/1,000 population 
				note: refugees currently in surrounding countries are slowly returning (2009 est.) 
				Singapore
			5.82 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2009 est.) 
				Slovakia
			0.3 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2009 est.) 
				Slovenia
			0.52 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2009 est.) 
				Solomon Islands
			NA (2009 est.) 
				Somalia
			0 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2009 est.) 
				South Africa
			-0.13 migrant(s)/1,000 population 
				note: there is an increasing flow of Zimbabweans into South Africa and Botswana in search of better economic opportunities (2009 est.) 
				Spain
			0.99 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2009 est.) 
				Sri Lanka
			-1.09 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2009 est.) 
				Sudan
			0.63 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2009 est.) 
				Suriname
			-0.26 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2009 est.) 
				Svalbard
			NA (2009 est.) 
				Swaziland
			NA (2009 est.) 
				Sweden
			1.66 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2009 est.) 
				Switzerland
			1.76 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2009 est.) 
				Syria
			NA (2009 est.) 
				Taiwan
			0.03 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2009 est.) 
				Tajikistan
			-1.28 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2009 est.) 
				Tanzania
			-1.3 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2009 est.) 
				Thailand
			NA (2009 est.) 
				Timor-Leste
			NA (2009 est.) 
				Togo
			NA (2009 est.) 
				Tokelau
			NA (2009 est.) 
				Tonga
			NA (2009 est.) 
				Trinidad and Tobago
			-7.28 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2009 est.) 
				Tunisia
			-0.41 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2009 est.) 
				Turkey
			0.56 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2009 est.) 
				Turkmenistan
			-1.97 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2009 est.) 
				Turks and Caicos Islands
			9.02 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2009 est.) 
				Tuvalu
			NA (2009 est.) 
				Uganda
			-8.83 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2009 est.) 
				Ukraine
			-0.11 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2009 est.) 
				United Arab Emirates
			22.98 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2009 est.) 
				United Kingdom
			2.16 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2009 est.) 
				United States
			4.31 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2009 est.) 
				Uruguay
			-0.16 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2009 est.) 
				Uzbekistan
			-2.94 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2009 est.) 
				Vanuatu
			NA (2009 est.) 
				Venezuela
			-0.42 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2009 est.) 
				Vietnam
			-0.38 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2009 est.) 
				Virgin Islands
			-5.49 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2009 est.) 
				Wallis and Futuna
			-6.08 migrant(s)/1,000 population 
				note: there has been steady emigration from Wallis and Futuna to New Caledonia (2009 est.) 
				West Bank
			0 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2009 est.) 
				Yemen
			NA (2009 est.) 
				Zambia
			-2.59 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2009 est.) 
				Zimbabwe
			NA 
				note: there is an increasing flow of Zimbabweans into South Africa and Botswana in search of better economic opportunities (2009 est.)  		
				This page was last updated on 19 March 2009
&nbsp; 
CIA - The World Factbook -- Field Listing - Oil - proved reserves
&nbsp; 
				    &nbsp; 
                    Field Listing - Oil - proved reserves
         Home 
          &nbsp;Reference Maps 
          &nbsp;Appendixes 
          		&nbsp;Rank Order List
			Country
			Oil - proved reserves (bbl) 
				Afghanistan
			0 bbl (1 January 2006 est.) 
				Albania
			199.1 million bbl (1 January 2008 est.) 
				Algeria
			12.2 billion bbl (1 January 2008 est.) 
				American Samoa
			0 bbl (1 January 2006 est.) 
				Angola
			9.035 billion bbl (1 January 2008 est.) 
				Antigua and Barbuda
			0 bbl (1 January 2006 est.) 
				Argentina
			2.587 billion bbl (1 January 2008 est.) 
				Armenia
			0 bbl (1 January 2006 est.) 
				Aruba
			NA 
				Australia
			1.5 billion bbl (1 January 2008 est.) 
				Austria
			50 million bbl (1 January 2008 est.) 
				Azerbaijan
			7 billion bbl (1 January 2008 est.) 
				Bahamas, The
			0 bbl (1 January 2006 est.) 
				Bahrain
			124.6 million bbl (1 January 2008 est.) 
				Bangladesh
			28 million bbl (1 January 2008 est.) 
				Barbados
			2.2 million bbl (1 January 2008 est.) 
				Belarus
			198 million bbl (1 January 2008 est.) 
				Belgium
			0 bbl (1 January 2006 est.) 
				Belize
			NA 
				Benin
			8 million bbl (1 January 2008 est.) 
				Bermuda
			0 bbl (1 January 2006 est.) 
				Bhutan
			0 bbl (1 January 2006 est.) 
				Bolivia
			465 million bbl (1 January 2008 est.) 
				Bosnia and Herzegovina
			0 bbl (1 January 2006 est.) 
				Botswana
			0 bbl (1 January 2006 est.) 
				Brazil
			12.18 billion bbl (1 January 2008 est.) 
				British Virgin Islands
			0 bbl (1 January 2006 est.) 
				Brunei
			1.1 billion bbl (1 January 2008 est.) 
				Bulgaria
			15 million bbl (1 January 2008 est.) 
				Burkina Faso
			0 bbl (1 January 2006 est.) 
				Burma
			50 million bbl (1 January 2008 est.) 
				Burundi
			0 bbl (1 January 2006 est.) 
				Cambodia
			0 bbl (1 January 2006 est.) 
				Cameroon
			200 million bbl (1 January 2008 est.) 
				Canada
			178.6 billion bbl 
				note: includes oil sands (1 January 2008 est.) 
				Cape Verde
			0 bbl (1 January 2006 est.) 
				Cayman Islands
			0 bbl (1 January 2006 est.) 
				Central African Republic
			0 bbl (1 January 2006 est.) 
				Chad
			1.5 billion bbl (1 January 2008 est.) 
				Chile
			150 million bbl (1 January 2008 est.) 
				China
			16 billion bbl (1 January 2008 est.) 
				Colombia
			1.506 billion bbl (1 January 2008 est.) 
				Comoros
			0 bbl (1 January 2006 est.) 
				Congo, Democratic Republic of the
			180 million bbl (1 January 2008 est.) 
				Congo, Republic of the
			1.6 billion bbl (1 January 2008 est.) 
				Cook Islands
			0 bbl (1 January 2006 est.) 
				Costa Rica
			NA 
				Cote d'Ivoire
			100 million bbl (1 January 2008 est.) 
				Croatia
			79.15 million bbl (1 January 2008 est.) 
				Cuba
			124 million bbl (1 January 2008 est.) 
				Cyprus
			NA 
				Czech Republic
			15 million bbl (1 January 2008 est.) 
				Denmark
			1.188 billion bbl (1 January 2008 est.) 
				Djibouti
			0 bbl (1 January 2006 est.) 
				Dominica
			0 bbl (1 January 2006 est.) 
				Dominican Republic
			NA 
				Ecuador
			4.517 billion bbl (1 January 2008 est.) 
				Egypt
			3.7 billion bbl (1 January 2008 est.) 
				El Salvador
			0 bbl (1 January 2006 est.) 
				Equatorial Guinea
			1.1 billion bbl (1 January 2008 est.) 
				Eritrea
			0 bbl (1 January 2006 est.) 
				Estonia
			0 bbl (1 January 2006 est.) 
				Ethiopia
			428,000 bbl (1 January 2008 est.) 
				European Union
			6.146 billion bbl (1 January 2008) 
				Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas)
			0 bbl (1 January 2006 est.) 
				Faroe Islands
			0 bbl (1 January 2006 est.) 
				Fiji
			0 bbl (1 January 2006 est.) 
				Finland
			NA bbl 
				France
			122 million bbl (1 January 2008 est.) 
				French Polynesia
			0 bbl (1 January 2006 est.) 
				Gabon
			2 billion bbl (1 January 2008 est.) 
				Gambia, The
			0 bbl (1 January 2006 est.) 
				Georgia
			35 million bbl (1 January 2008 est.) 
				Germany
			367 million bbl (1 January 2008 est.) 
				Ghana
			15 million bbl (1 January 2008 est.) 
				Gibraltar
			0 bbl (1 January 2006 est.) 
				Greece
			10 million bbl (1 January 2008 est.) 
				Greenland
			0 bbl (1 January 2006 est.) 
				Grenada
			0 bbl (1 January 2006 est.) 
				Guam
			0 bbl (1 January 2006 est.) 
				Guatemala
			83.07 million bbl (1 January 2008 est.) 
				Guinea
			0 bbl (1 January 2006 est.) 
				Guinea-Bissau
			0 bbl (1 January 2006 est.) 
				Guyana
			0 bbl (1 January 2006 est.) 
				Haiti
			0 bbl (1 January 2006 est.) 
				Honduras
			0 bbl (1 January 2006 est.) 
				Hong Kong
			0 bbl (1 January 2008) 
				Hungary
			20.18 million bbl (1 January 2008 est.) 
				Iceland
			0 bbl (1 January 2006 est.) 
				India
			5.625 billion bbl (1 January 2008 est.) 
				Indonesia
			4.37 billion bbl (1 January 2008 est.) 
				Iran
			138.4 billion bbl based on Iranian claims (1 January 2008 est.) 
				Iraq
			115 billion bbl (1 January 2008 est.) 
				Ireland
			0 bbl (1 January 2006 est.) 
				Israel
			1.94 million bbl (1 January 2008 est.) 
				Italy
			406.5 million bbl (1 January 2008 est.) 
				Jamaica
			0 bbl (1 January 2006 est.) 
				Japan
			44.12 million bbl (1 January 2008 est.) 
				Jordan
			1 million bbl (1 January 2008 est.) 
				Kazakhstan
			30 billion bbl (1 January 2008 est.) 
				Kenya
			0 bbl (1 January 2006 est.) 
				Kiribati
			0 bbl (1 January 2006 est.) 
				Korea, North
			NA bbl 
				Korea, South
			NA 
				Kosovo
			NA bbl 
				Kuwait
			104 billion bbl (1 January 2008 est.) 
				Kyrgyzstan
			40 million bbl (1 January 2008 est.) 
				Laos
			0 bbl (1 January 2006 est.) 
				Latvia
			0 bbl (1 January 2006 est.) 
				Lebanon
			0 bbl (1 January 2006 est.) 
				Lesotho
			0 bbl (1 January 2006 est.) 
				Liberia
			0 bbl (1 January 2006 est.) 
				Libya
			41.46 billion bbl (1 January 2008 est.) 
				Lithuania
			12 million bbl (1 January 2008 est.) 
				Luxembourg
			0 bbl (1 January 2006 est.) 
				Macau
			0 bbl (1 January 2008 est.) 
				Macedonia
			0 bbl (1 January 2008 est.) 
				Madagascar
			0 bbl (1 January 2006 est.) 
				Malawi
			0 bbl (1 January 2006 est.) 
				Malaysia
			4 billion bbl (1 January 2008 est.) 
				Maldives
			0 bbl (1 January 2006 est.) 
				Mali
			0 bbl (1 January 2006 est.) 
				Malta
			0 bbl (1 January 2006 est.) 
				Mauritania
			100 million bbl (1 January 2008 est.) 
				Mauritius
			0 bbl (1 January 2006 est.) 
				Mexico
			11.65 billion bbl (1 January 2008 est.) 
				Moldova
			0 bbl (1 January 2006 est.) 
				Mongolia
			NA 
				Montenegro
			0 bbl (1 January 2006 est.) 
				Montserrat
			0 bbl (1 January 2006 est.) 
				Morocco
			836,000 bbl (1 January 2008 est.) 
				Mozambique
			0 bbl (1 January 2006 est.) 
				Namibia
			0 bbl (1 January 2006 est.) 
				Nauru
			0 bbl (1 January 2006 est.) 
				Nepal
			0 bbl (1 January 2006 est.) 
				Netherlands
			100 million bbl (1 January 2008 est.) 
				Netherlands Antilles
			0 bbl (1 January 2006 est.) 
				New Caledonia
			0 bbl (1 January 2006 est.) 
				New Zealand
			55 million bbl (1 January 2008 est.) 
				Nicaragua
			0 bbl (1 January 2006 est.) 
				Niger
			NA bbl 
				Nigeria
			36.22 billion bbl (1 January 2008 est.) 
				Niue
			0 bbl (1 January 2006 est.) 
				Norway
			6.865 billion bbl (1 January 2008 est.) 
				Oman
			5.5 billion bbl (1 January 2008 est.) 
				Pakistan
			289.2 million bbl (1 January 2008 est.) 
				Panama
			0 bbl (1 January 2006 est.) 
				Papua New Guinea
			88 million bbl (1 January 2008 est.) 
				Paraguay
			0 bbl (1 January 2006 est.) 
				Peru
			930 million bbl (1 January 2008 est.) 
				Philippines
			138.5 million bbl (1 January 2008 est.) 
				Poland
			96.38 million bbl (1 January 2008 est.) 
				Portugal
			NA bbl 
				Puerto Rico
			0 bbl (1 January 2006 est.) 
				Qatar
			15.21 billion bbl (1 January 2008 est.) 
				Romania
			600 million bbl (1 January 2008 est.) 
				Russia
			79 billion bbl (1 January 2008 est.) 
				Rwanda
			0 bbl (1 January 2006 est.) 
				Saint Helena
			0 bbl (1 January 2006 est.) 
				Saint Kitts and Nevis
			0 bbl (1 January 2006 est.) 
				Saint Lucia
			0 bbl (1 January 2006 est.) 
				Saint Pierre and Miquelon
			0 bbl (1 January 2006 est.) 
				Saint Vincent and the Grenadines
			0 bbl (1 January 2006 est.) 
				Samoa
			0 bbl (1 January 2006 est.) 
				Sao Tome and Principe
			0 bbl (1 January 2006 est.) 
				Saudi Arabia
			266.8 billion bbl (1 January 2008 est.) 
				Senegal
			0 bbl (1 January 2006 est.) 
				Serbia
			77.5 million bbl (1 January 2008 est.) 
				Seychelles
			0 bbl (1 January 2006) 
				Sierra Leone
			0 bbl (1 January 2006 est.) 
				Singapore
			0 bbl (1 January 2006 est.) 
				Slovakia
			9 million bbl (1 January 2008 est.) 
				Slovenia
			0 bbl (1 January 2006 est.) 
				Solomon Islands
			0 bbl (1 January 2006 est.) 
				Somalia
			0 bbl (1 January 2006 est.) 
				South Africa
			15 million bbl (1 January 2008 est.) 
				Spain
			150 million bbl (1 January 2008 est.) 
				Sri Lanka
			0 bbl (1 January 2008 est.) 
				Sudan
			5 billion bbl (1 January 2008 est.) 
				Suriname
			88 million bbl (1 January 2008 est.) 
				Swaziland
			0 bbl (1 January 2006 est.) 
				Sweden
			0 bbl (1 January 2006 est.) 
				Switzerland
			NA 
				Syria
			2.5 billion bbl (1 January 2008 est.) 
				Taiwan
			1.88 million bbl (2008 est.) 
				Tajikistan
			12 million bbl (1 January 2008 est.) 
				Tanzania
			0 bbl (1 January 2006 est.) 
				Thailand
			176 million bbl (1 January 2008 est.) 
				Timor-Leste
				Togo
			0 bbl (1 January 2006 est.) 
				Tonga
			0 bbl (1 January 2007 est.) 
				Trinidad and Tobago
			728.3 million bbl (1 January 2008 est.) 
				Tunisia
			400 million bbl (1 January 2008 est.) 
				Turkey
			300 million bbl (1 January 2008 est.) 
				Turkmenistan
			600 million bbl (1 January 2008 est.) 
				Turks and Caicos Islands
			0 bbl (1 January 2006 est.) 
				Uganda
			0 bbl (1 January 2006 est.) 
				Ukraine
			395 million bbl (1 January 2008 est.) 
				United Arab Emirates
			97.8 billion bbl (1 January 2008 est.) 
				United Kingdom
			3.6 billion bbl (1 January 2008 est.) 
				United States
			20.97 billion bbl (1 January 2008 est.) 
				Uruguay
			NA 
				Uzbekistan
			594 million bbl (1 January 2008 est.) 
				Vanuatu
			0 bbl (1 January 2006 est.) 
				Venezuela
			87.04 billion bbl (1 January 2008 est.) 
				Vietnam
			600 million bbl (1 January 2008 est.) 
				Virgin Islands
			NA 
				Western Sahara
			0 bbl (1 January 2006 est.) 
				World
			1.332 trillion bbl (1 January 2008 est.) 
				Yemen
			3 billion bbl (1 January 2008 est.) 
				Zambia
			NA 
				Zimbabwe
			0 bbl (1 January 2006 est.)  		
				This page was last updated on 19 March 2009
&nbsp; 
CIA - The World Factbook -- Field Listing - Judicial branch
&nbsp; 
				    &nbsp; 
                    Field Listing - Judicial branch
         Home 
          &nbsp;Reference Maps 
          &nbsp;Appendixes 
			Country
			Judicial branch 	
				Afghanistan
			the constitution establishes a nine-member Stera Mahkama or Supreme Court (its nine justices are appointed for 10-year terms by the president with approval of the Wolesi Jirga) and subordinate High Courts and Appeals Courts; there is also a minister of justice; a separate Afghan Independent Human Rights Commission established by the Bonn Agreement is charged with investigating human rights abuses and war crimes 
				Albania
			Constitutional Court, Supreme Court (chairman is elected by the People's Assembly for a four-year term), and multiple appeals and district courts 
				Algeria
			Supreme Court 
				American Samoa
			High Court (chief justice and associate justices are appointed by the US Secretary of the Interior) 
				Andorra
			Tribunal of Judges or Tribunal de Batlles; Tribunal of the Courts or Tribunal de Corts; Supreme Court of Justice of Andorra or Tribunal Superior de Justicia d'Andorra; Supreme Council of Justice or Consell Superior de la Justicia; Fiscal Ministry or Ministeri Fiscal; Constitutional Tribunal or Tribunal Constitucional 
				Angola
			Supreme Court and separate provincial courts (judges are appointed by the president) 
				Anguilla
			High Court (judge provided by Eastern Caribbean Supreme Court) 
				Antigua and Barbuda
			Eastern Caribbean Supreme Court consisting of a High Court of Justice and a Court of Appeal (based in Saint Lucia; two judges of the Supreme Court are residents of the islands and preside over the Court of Summary Jurisdiction); Magistrates' Courts; member of the Caribbean Court of Justice 
				Argentina
			Supreme Court or Corte Suprema (the Supreme Court judges are appointed by the president with approval of the Senate) 
				note: the Supreme Court currently has seven judges, and the Argentine Congress in 2006 passed a bill to gradually reduce the number of Supreme Court judges to five 
				Armenia
			Constitutional Court; Court of Cassation (Appeals Court) 
				Aruba
			Common Court of Justice of Aruba (judges are appointed by the monarch) 
				Australia
			High Court (the chief justice and six other justices are appointed by the governor general) 
				Austria
			Supreme Judicial Court or Oberster Gerichtshof; Administrative Court or Verwaltungsgerichtshof; Constitutional Court or Verfassungsgerichtshof 
				Azerbaijan
			Supreme Court 
				Bahamas, The
			Privy Council in London; Courts of Appeal; Supreme (lower) Court; Magistrates' Courts 
				Bahrain
			High Civil Appeals Court 
				Bangladesh
			Supreme Court (the chief justices and other judges are appointed by the president) 
				Barbados
			Supreme Court of Judicature consists of a High Court and a Court of Appeal (judges are appointed by the Service Commissions for the Judicial and Legal Services); Caribbean Court of Justice or CCJ is the highest court of appeal; based in Port of Spain, Trinidad and Tobago 
				Belarus
			Supreme Court (judges are appointed by the president); Constitutional Court (half of the judges appointed by the president and half appointed by the Chamber of Representatives) 
				Belgium
			Supreme Court of Justice or Hof van Cassatie (in Dutch) or Cour de Cassation (in French) (judges are appointed for life by the government; candidacies have to be submitted by the High Justice Council) 
				Belize
			Summary Jurisdiction Courts (criminal) and District Courts (civil jurisdiction); Supreme Court (the chief justice is appointed by the governor general on the advice of the prime minister); Court of Appeal; Privy Council in the UK; member of the Caribbean Court of Justice (CCJ) 
				Benin
			Constitutional Court or Cour Constitutionnelle; Supreme Court or Cour Supreme; High Court of Justice 
				Bermuda
			Supreme Court; Court of Appeal; Magistrate Courts 
				Bhutan
			Supreme Court of Appeal (the monarch); High Court (judges appointed by the monarch); note - the draft constitution establishes a Supreme Court, which will serve as chief court of appeal 
				Bolivia
			Supreme Court or Corte Suprema (judges appointed for 10-year terms by National Congress); District Courts (one in each department); provincial and local courts (to try minor cases); Constitutional Tribunal (five primary or titulares and five alternate or suplente magistrates appointed by Congress; to rule on constitutional issues); National Electoral Court (six members elected by Congress, Supreme Court, the President, and the political party with the highest vote in the last election for 4-year terms) 
				Bosnia and Herzegovina
			BH Constitutional Court (consists of nine members: four members are selected by the Bosniak/Croat Federation's House of Representatives, two members by the Republika Srpska's National Assembly, and three non-Bosnian members by the president of the European Court of Human Rights); BH State Court (consists of nine judges and three divisions - Administrative, Appellate and Criminal - having jurisdiction over cases related to state-level law and appellate jurisdiction over cases initiated in the entities); a War Crimes Chamber opened in March 2005 
				note: the entities each have a Supreme Court; each entity also has a number of lower courts; there are 10 cantonal courts in the Federation, plus a number of municipal courts; the Republika Srpska has five municipal courts 
				Botswana
			High Court; Court of Appeal; Magistrates' Courts (one in each district) 
				Brazil
			Supreme Federal Tribunal or STF (11 ministers are appointed for life by the president and confirmed by the Senate); Higher Tribunal of Justice; Regional Federal Tribunals (judges are appointed for life); note - though appointed "for life," judges, like all federal employees, have a mandatory retirement age of 70 
				British Virgin Islands
			Eastern Caribbean Supreme Court, consisting of the High Court of Justice and the Court of Appeal (one judge of the Supreme Court is a resident of the islands and presides over the High Court); Magistrate's Court; Juvenile Court; Court of Summary Jurisdiction 
				Brunei
			Supreme Court - chief justice and judges are sworn in by monarch for three-year terms; Judicial Committee of Privy Council in London is final court of appeal for civil cases; Sharia courts deal with Islamic laws (2006) 
				Bulgaria
			independent judiciary comprised of judges, prosecutors and investigating magistrates who are appointed, promoted, demoted, and dismissed by a 25-member Supreme Judicial Council (consists of the chairmen of the two Supreme Courts, the Chief Prosecutor, and 22 members, half of which are elected by the National Assembly and the other half by the bodies of the judiciary for a 5-year term in office); three levels of case review; 182 courts of which two Supreme Courts act as the last instance on civil and criminal cases (the Supreme Court of Cassation) and appeals of government decisions (the Supreme Administrative Court) 
				Burkina Faso
			Supreme Court; Appeals Court 
				Burma
			remnants of the British-era legal system are in place, but there is no guarantee of a fair public trial; the judiciary is not independent of the executive 
				Burundi
			Supreme Court or Cour Supreme; Constitutional Court; High Court of Justice (composed of the Supreme Court and the Constitutional Court) 
				Cambodia
			Supreme Council of the Magistracy (provided for in the constitution and formed in December 1997); Supreme Court (and lower courts) exercises judicial authority 
				Cameroon
			Supreme Court (judges are appointed by the president); High Court of Justice (consists of nine judges and six substitute judges, elected by the National Assembly) 
				Canada
			Supreme Court of Canada (judges are appointed by the prime minister through the governor general); Federal Court of Canada; Federal Court of Appeal; Provincial Courts (these are named variously Court of Appeal, Court of Queens Bench, Superior Court, Supreme Court, and Court of Justice) 
				Cape Verde
			Supreme Tribunal of Justice or Supremo Tribunal de Justia 
				Cayman Islands
			Summary Court; Grand Court; Cayman Islands Court of Appeal 
				Central African Republic
			Supreme Court or Cour Supreme; Constitutional Court (3 judges appointed by the president, 3 by the president of the National Assembly, and 3 by fellow judges); Court of Appeal; Criminal Courts; Inferior Courts 
				Chad
			Supreme Court; Court of Appeal; Criminal Courts; Magistrate Courts 
				Chile
			Supreme Court or Corte Suprema (judges are appointed by the president and ratified by the Senate from lists of candidates provided by the court itself; the president of the Supreme Court is elected every three years by the 20-member court); Constitutional Tribunal (eight-members - two each from the Senate, Chamber of Deputies, Supreme Court, and National Secuirty Council - review the constitutionality of laws approved by Congress) 
				China
			Supreme People's Court (judges appointed by the National People's Congress); Local People's Courts (comprise higher, intermediate, and basic courts); Special People's Courts (primarily military, maritime, railway transportation, and forestry courts) 
				Christmas Island
			Supreme Court; District Court; Magistrate's Court 
				Cocos (Keeling) Islands
			Supreme Court; Magistrate's Court 
				Colombia
			four roughly coequal, supreme judicial organs; Supreme Court of Justice or Corte Suprema de Justicia (highest court of criminal law; judges are selected by their peers from the nominees of the Superior Judicial Council for eight-year terms); Council of State (highest court of administrative law; judges are selected from the nominees of the Superior Judicial Council for eight-year terms); Constitutional Court (guards integrity and supremacy of the constitution; rules on constitutionality of laws, amendments to the constitution, and international treaties); Superior Judicial Council (administers and disciplines the civilian judiciary; resolves jurisdictional conflicts arising between other courts; members are elected by three sister courts and Congress for eight-year terms) 
				Comoros
			Supreme Court or Cour Supremes (two members appointed by the president, two members elected by the Federal Assembly, one elected by the Council of each island, and others are former presidents of the republic) 
				Congo, Democratic Republic of the
			Constitutional Court; Appeals Court or Cour de Cassation; Council of State; High Military Court; plus civil and military courts and tribunals 
				Congo, Republic of the
			Supreme Court or Cour Supreme 
				Cook Islands
			High Court 
				Costa Rica
			Supreme Court or Corte Suprema (22 justices are elected for renewable eight-year terms by the Legislative Assembly) 
				Cote d'Ivoire
			Supreme Court or Cour Supreme consists of four chambers: Judicial Chamber for criminal cases, Audit Chamber for financial cases, Constitutional Chamber for judicial review cases, and Administrative Chamber for civil cases; there is no legal limit to the number of members 
				Croatia
			Supreme Court; Constitutional Court; judges for both courts appointed for eight-year terms by the Judicial Council of the Republic, which is elected by the Assembly 
				Cuba
			People's Supreme Court or Tribunal Supremo Popular (president, vice president, and other judges are elected by the National Assembly) 
				Cyprus
			Supreme Court (judges are appointed jointly by the president and vice president) 
				note: there is also a Supreme Court in the area administered by Turkish Cypriots 
				Czech Republic
			Supreme Court; Constitutional Court; chairman and deputy chairmen are appointed by the president for a 10-year term 
				Denmark
			Supreme Court (judges are appointed by the monarch for life) 
				Djibouti
			Supreme Court or Cour Supreme 
				Dominica
			Eastern Caribbean Supreme Court, consisting of the Court of Appeal and the High Court (located in Saint Lucia; one of the six judges must reside in Dominica and preside over the Court of Summary Jurisdiction) 
				Dominican Republic
			Supreme Court or Corte Suprema (judges are appointed by the National Judicial Council comprised of the president, the leaders of both chambers of congress, the president of the Supreme Court, and an additional non-governing party congressional representative) 
				Ecuador
			Supreme Court or Corte Suprema (according to the Constitution, new justices are elected by the full Supreme Court; in December 2004, however, Congress successfully replaced the entire court via a simple-majority resolution) 
				Egypt
			Supreme Constitutional Court 
				El Salvador
			Supreme Court or Corte Suprema (15 judges are selected by the Legislative Assembly; the 15 judges are assigned to four Supreme Court chambers - constitutional, civil, penal, and administrative conflict) 
				Equatorial Guinea
			Supreme Tribunal 
				Eritrea
			High Court - regional, subregional, and village courts; also have military and special courts 
				Estonia
			Supreme Court (chairman appointed by Parliament for life) 
				Ethiopia
			Federal Supreme Court (the president and vice president of the Federal Supreme Court are recommended by the prime minister and appointed by the House of People's Representatives; for other federal judges, the prime minister submits to the House of People's Representatives for appointment candidates selected by the Federal Judicial Administrative Council) 
				European Union
			Court of Justice of the European Communities (ensures that the treaties are interpreted and applied uniformly throughout the EU; resolve constitutional issues among the EU institutions) - 27 justices (one from each member state) appointed for a six-year term; note - for the sake of efficiency, the court can sit with 13 justices known as the "Grand Chamber"; Court of First Instance - 27 justices appointed for a six-year term 
				Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas)
			Supreme Court (chief justice is a nonresident); Magistrates Court (senior magistrate presides over civil and criminal divisions); Court of Summary Jurisdiction 
				Faroe Islands
			none 
				Fiji
			Supreme Court (judges are appointed by the president); Court of Appeal; High Court; Magistrates' Courts 
				Finland
			Supreme Court or Korkein Oikeus (judges appointed by the president) 
				France
			Supreme Court of Appeals or Cour de Cassation (judges are appointed by the president from nominations of the High Council of the Judiciary); Constitutional Council or Conseil Constitutionnel (three members appointed by the president, three appointed by the president of the National Assembly, and three appointed by the president of the Senate); Council of State or Conseil d'Etat 
				French Polynesia
			Court of Appeal or Cour d'Appel; Court of the First Instance or Tribunal de Premiere Instance; Court of Administrative Law or Tribunal Administratif 
				Gabon
			Supreme Court or Cour Supreme consisting of three chambers - Judicial, Administrative, and Accounts; Constitutional Court; Courts of Appeal; Court of State Security; County Courts 
				Gambia, The
			Supreme Court 
				Georgia
			Supreme Court (judges elected by the Supreme Council on the president's or chairman of the Supreme Court's recommendation); Constitutional Court; first and second instance courts 
				Germany
			Federal Constitutional Court or Bundesverfassungsgericht (half the judges are elected by the Bundestag and half by the Bundesrat) 
				Ghana
			Supreme Court 
				Gibraltar
			Supreme Court; Court of Appeal 
				Greece
			Supreme Judicial Court; Special Supreme Tribunal; all judges appointed for life by the president after consultation with a judicial council 
				Greenland
			High Court or Landsret (appeals can be made to the Ostre Landsret or Eastern Division of the High Court or Supreme Court in Copenhagen) 
				Grenada
			Eastern Caribbean Supreme Court, consisting of a court of Appeal and a High Court of Justice (two High Court judges are assigned to and reside in Grenada); Itinerant Court of Appeal three judges; member of the Caribbean Court of Justice (CCJ) 
				Guam
			Federal District Court (judge is appointed by the president); Territorial Superior Court (judges appointed for eight-year terms by the governor) 
				Guatemala
			Constitutional Court or Corte de Constitucionalidad is Guatemala's highest court (five judges are elected for concurrent five-year terms); Supreme Court of Justice or Corte Suprema de Justicia (13 members serve concurrent five-year terms and elect a president of the Court each year from among their number; the president of the Supreme Court of Justice also supervises trial judges around the country, who are named to five-year terms) 
				Guernsey
			Royal Court (judges elected by an electoral college and the bailiff) 
				Guinea
			Court of First Instance or Tribunal de Premiere Instance; Court of Appeal or Cour d'Appel; Supreme Court or Cour Supreme 
				Guinea-Bissau
			Supreme Court or Supremo Tribunal da Justica (consists of nine justices appointed by the president and serve at his pleasure; final court of appeals in criminal and civil cases); Regional Courts (one in each of nine regions; first court of appeals for Sectoral Court decisions; hear all felony cases and civil cases valued at more than $1,000); 24 Sectoral Courts (judges are not necessarily trained lawyers; they hear civil cases valued at less than $1,000 and misdemeanor criminal cases) 
				Guyana
			Supreme Court of Judicature, consisting of the High Court and the Court of Appeal, with right of final appeal to the Caribbean Court of Justice (CCJ) 
				Haiti
			Supreme Court or Cour de Cassation 
				Holy See (Vatican City)
			there are three tribunals responsible for civil and criminal matters within Vatican City; three other tribunals rule on issues pertaining to the Holy See 
				note: judicial duties were established by the Motu Proprio of Pope PIUS XII on 1 May 1946 
				Honduras
			Supreme Court of Justice or Corte Suprema de Justicia (15 judges are elected for seven-year terms by the National Congress) 
				Hong Kong
			Court of Final Appeal in the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region 
				Hungary
			Constitutional Court (judges are elected by the National Assembly for nine-year terms) 
				Iceland
			Supreme Court or Haestirettur (justices are appointed for life by the Minister of Justice); eight district courts (justices are appointed for life by the Minister of Justice) 
				India
			Supreme Court (one chief justice and 25 associate justices are appointed by the president and remain in office until they reach the age of 65 or are removed for "proved misbehavior") 
				Indonesia
			Supreme Court or Mahkamah Agung is the final court of appeal and does not have the power of judicial review (justices appointed by the president from a list of candidates selected by the legislature); in March 2004 the Supreme Court assumed administrative and financial responsibility for the lower court system from the Ministry of Justice and Human Rights; Constitutional Court or Mahkamah Konstitusi (invested by the president on 16 August 2003) has the power of judicial review, jurisdiction over the results of a general election, and reviews actions to dismiss a President from office; Labor Court under supervision of Supreme Court began functioning in January 2006; the Anti-Corruption Court has jurisdiction over corruption cases brought by the independent Corruption Eradication Commission; in 2006, the Constitutional Court declared the mechanism by which the Anti-Corruption Court was established unconstitutional and gave the Parliament until the end of 2009 to pass Anti-Corruption Court legislation 
				Iran
			The Supreme Court (Qeveh Qazaieh) and the four-member High Council of the Judiciary have a single head and overlapping responsibilities; together they supervise the enforcement of all laws and establish judicial and legal policies; lower courts include a special clerical court, a revolutionary court, and a special administrative court 
				Iraq
			the Iraq Constitution calls for the federal judicial power to be comprised of the Higher Judicial Council, Federal Supreme Court, Federal Court of Cassation, Public Prosecution Department, Judiciary Oversight Commission and other federal courts that are regulated in accordance with the law 
				Ireland
			Supreme Court (judges appointed by the president on the advice of the prime minister and cabinet) 
				Isle of Man
			High Court of Justice (justices are appointed by the Lord Chancellor of England on the nomination of the lieutenant governor) 
				Israel
			Supreme Court (justices appointed by Judicial Selection Committee - made up of all three branches of the government; mandatory retirement age is 70) 
				Italy
			Constitutional Court or Corte Costituzionale (composed of 15 judges: one-third appointed by the president, one-third elected by parliament, one-third elected by the ordinary and administrative Supreme Courts) 
				Jamaica
			Supreme Court (judges appointed by the governor general on the advice of the prime minister); Court of Appeal; Privy Council in UK; member of the Caribbean Court of Justice (CCJ) 
				Japan
			Supreme Court (chief justice is appointed by the monarch after designation by the cabinet; all other justices are appointed by the cabinet) 
				Jersey
			Royal Court (judges elected by an electoral college and the bailiff) 
				Jordan
			Court of Cassation (Supreme Court) 
				Kazakhstan
			Supreme Court (44 members); Constitutional Council (7 members) 
				Kenya
			Court of Appeal (chief justice is appointed by the president); High Court 
				Kiribati
			Court of Appeal; High Court; 26 Magistrates' courts; judges at all levels are appointed by the president 
				Korea, North
			Central Court (judges are elected by the Supreme People's Assembly) 
				Korea, South
			Supreme Court (justices appointed by the president with consent of National Assembly); Constitutional Court (justices appointed by the president based partly on nominations by National Assembly and Chief Justice of the court) 
				Kosovo
			Supreme Court; district courts; municipal courts 
				note: the Kosovo Constitution dictates that the Supreme Court of Kosovo is the highest judicial authority, and provides for a Kosovo Judicial Council (KJC) that proposes to the president candidates for appointment or reappointment as judges and prosecutors; the KJC is also responsible for decisions on the promotion and transfer of judges and disciplinary proceedings against judges; at least 15% of Supreme Court and district court judges shall be from non-majority communities 
				Kuwait
			High Court of Appeal 
				Kyrgyzstan
			Supreme Court; Constitutional Court (judges of both the Supreme and Constitutional Courts are appointed for 10-year terms by the Jorgorku Kengesh on the recommendation of the president; their mandatory retirement age is 70 years); Higher Court of Arbitration; Local Courts (judges appointed by the president on the recommendation of the National Council on Legal Affairs for a probationary period of five years, then 10 years) 
				Laos
			People's Supreme Court (the president of the People's Supreme Court is elected by the National Assembly on the recommendation of the National Assembly Standing Committee; the vice president of the People's Supreme Court and the judges are appointed by the National Assembly Standing Committee) 
				Latvia
			Supreme Court (judges' appointments are confirmed by Parliament); Constitutional Court (judges' appointments are confirmed by Parliament) 
				Lebanon
			four Courts of Cassation (three courts for civil and commercial cases and one court for criminal cases); Constitutional Council (called for in Ta'if Accord - rules on constitutionality of laws); Supreme Council (hears charges against the president and prime minister as needed) 
				Lesotho
			High Court (chief justice appointed by the monarch acting on the advice of the Prime Minister); Court of Appeal; Magistrate Courts; customary or traditional court 
				Liberia
			Supreme Court 
				Libya
			Supreme Court 
				Liechtenstein
			Supreme Court or Oberster Gerichtshof; Court of Appeal or Obergericht 
				Lithuania
			Constitutional Court; Supreme Court; Court of Appeal; judges for all courts appointed by the president 
				Luxembourg
			judicial courts and tribunals (3 Justices of the Peace, 2 district courts, and 1 Supreme Court of Appeals); administrative courts and tribunals (State Prosecutor's Office, administrative courts and tribunals, and the Constitutional Court); judges for all courts are appointed for life by the monarch 
				Macau
			Court of Final Appeal in Macau Special Administrative Region 
				Macedonia
			Supreme Court - the Assembly appoints the judges; Constitutional Court - the Assembly appoints the judges; Republican Judicial Council - the Assembly appoints the judges 
				Madagascar
			Supreme Court or Cour Supreme; High Constitutional Court or Haute Cour Constitutionnelle 
				Malawi
			Supreme Court of Appeal; High Court (chief justice appointed by the president, puisne judges appointed on the advice of the Judicial Service Commission); magistrate's courts 
				Malaysia
			Civil Courts include Federal Court, Court of Appeal, High Court of Malaya on peninsula Malaysia, and High Court of Sabah and Sarawak in states of Borneo (judges appointed by the king on the advice of the prime minister); Sharia Courts include Sharia Appeal Court, Sharia High Court, and Sharia Subordinate Courts at state-level and deal with religious and family matters such as custody, divorce, and inheritance, only for Muslims; decisions of Sharia courts cannot be appealed to civil courts 
				Maldives
			Supreme Court; Supreme Court judges are appointed by the President with approval of voting members of the People's Council; High Court; Trial Courts; all lower court judges are appointed by the Judicial Service Commission 
				Mali
			Supreme Court or Cour Supreme 
				Malta
			Constitutional Court; Court of Appeal; judges for both courts are appointed by the president on the advice of the prime minister 
				Marshall Islands
			Supreme Court; High Court; Traditional Rights Court 
				Mauritania
			Supreme Court or Cour Supreme; Court of Appeals; lower courts 
				Mauritius
			Supreme Court 
				Mayotte
			Supreme Court or Tribunal Superieur d'Appel 
				Mexico
			Supreme Court of Justice or Suprema Corte de Justicia de la Nacion (justices or ministros are appointed by the president with consent of the Senate) 
				Micronesia, Federated States of
			Supreme Court 
				Moldova
			Supreme Court; Constitutional Court (the sole authority for constitutional judicature) 
				Monaco
			Supreme Court or Tribunal Supreme (judges appointed by the monarch on the basis of nominations by the National Council) 
				Mongolia
			Supreme Court (serves as appeals court for people's and provincial courts but rarely overturns verdicts of lower courts; judges are nominated by the General Council of Courts and approved by the president) 
				Montenegro
			Constitutional Court (five judges with nine-year terms); Supreme Court (judges have life tenure) 
				Montserrat
			Eastern Caribbean Supreme Court (based in Saint Lucia, one judge of the Supreme Court is a resident of the islands and presides over the High Court) 
				Morocco
			Supreme Court (judges are appointed on the recommendation of the Supreme Council of the Judiciary, presided over by the monarch) 
				Mozambique
			Supreme Court (the court of final appeal; some of its professional judges are appointed by the president and some are elected by the Assembly); other courts include an Administrative Court, customs courts, maritime courts, courts marshal, labor courts 
				note: although the constitution provides for a separate Constitutional Court, one has never been established; in its absence the Supreme Court reviews constitutional cases 
				Namibia
			Supreme Court (judges appointed by the president on the recommendation of the Judicial Service Commission) 
				Nauru
			Supreme Court 
				Nepal
			Supreme Court or Sarbochha Adalat (the President appoints the chief justice is appointed by the monarch on recommendation of the Constitutional Council; the chief justice appoints other judges on the recommendation of the Judicial Council) 
				Netherlands
			Supreme Court or Hoge Raad (justices are nominated for life by the monarch) 
				Netherlands Antilles
			Joint High Court of Justice (judges appointed by the monarch) 
				New Caledonia
			Court of Appeal or Cour d'Appel; County Courts; Joint Commerce Tribunal Court; Children's Court 
				New Zealand
			Supreme Court; Court of Appeal; High Court; note - judges appointed by the Governor-General 
				Nicaragua
			Supreme Court or Corte Suprema de Justicia (16 judges elected for five-year terms by the National Assembly) 
				Niger
			State Court or Cour d'Etat; Court of Appeals or Cour d'Appel 
				Nigeria
			Supreme Court (judges recommended by the National Judicial Council and appointed by the President); Federal Court of Appeal (judges are appointed by the federal government from a pool of judges recommended by the National Judicial Council) 
				Niue
			Supreme Court of New Zealand; High Court of Niue 
				Norfolk Island
			Supreme Court; Court of Petty Sessions 
				Northern Mariana Islands
			Commonwealth Supreme Court; Superior Court; Federal District Court 
				Norway
			Supreme Court or Hoyesterett (justices appointed by the monarch) 
				Oman
			Supreme Court 
				note: the nascent civil court system, administered by region, has judges who practice secular and Sharia law 
				Pakistan
			Supreme Court (justices appointed by the president); Federal Islamic or Sharia Court 
				Palau
			Supreme Court; Court of Common Pleas; Land Court 
				Panama
			Supreme Court of Justice or Corte Suprema de Justicia (nine judges appointed for 10-year terms); five superior courts; three courts of appeal 
				Papua New Guinea
			Supreme Court (the chief justice is appointed by the governor general on the proposal of the National Executive Council after consultation with the minister responsible for justice; other judges are appointed by the Judicial and Legal Services Commission) 
				Paraguay
			Supreme Court of Justice or Corte Suprema de Justicia (nine judges appointed on the proposal of the Council of Magistrates or Consejo de la Magistratura) 
				Peru
			Supreme Court of Justice or Corte Suprema de Justicia (judges are appointed by the National Council of the Judiciary) 
				Philippines
			Supreme Court (15 justices are appointed by the president on the recommendation of the Judicial and Bar Council and serve until 70 years of age); Court of Appeals; Sandigan-bayan (special court for hearing corruption cases of government officials) 
				Pitcairn Islands
			Magistrate's Court; Supreme Court; Court of Appeal; Judicial Officers are appointed by the Governor 
				Poland
			Supreme Court (judges are appointed by the president on the recommendation of the National Council of the Judiciary for an indefinite period); Constitutional Tribunal (judges are chosen by the Sejm for nine-year terms) 
				Portugal
			Supreme Court (Supremo Tribunal de Justica); judges appointed for life by the Conselho Superior da Magistratura 
				Puerto Rico
			Supreme Court; Appellate Court; Court of First Instance composed of two sections: a Superior Court and a Municipal Court (justices for all these courts appointed by the governor with the consent of the Senate) 
				Qatar
			Courts of First Instance, Appeal, and Cassation; an Administrative Court and a Constitutional Court were established in 2007; note - all judges are appointed by Amiri Decree based on the recommendation of the Supreme Judiciary Council for renewable three-year terms 
				Romania
			Supreme Court of Justice (comprised of 11 judges appointed for three-year terms by the president in consultation with the Superior Council of Magistrates, which is comprised of the minister of justice, the prosecutor general, two civil society representatives appointed by the Senate, and 14 judges and prosecutors elected by their peers); a separate body, the Constitutional Court, validates elections and makes decisions regarding the constitutionality of laws, treaties, ordinances, and internal rules of the Parliament; it is comprised of nine members serving nine-year terms, with three members each appointed by the president, the Senate, and the Chamber of Deputies 
				Russia
			Constitutional Court; Supreme Court; Supreme Arbitration Court; judges for all courts are appointed for life by the Federation Council on the recommendation of the president 
				Rwanda
			Supreme Court; High Courts of the Republic; Provincial Courts; District Courts; mediation committees 
				Saint Helena
			Magistrate's Court; Supreme Court; Court of Appeal 
				Saint Kitts and Nevis
			Eastern Caribbean Supreme Court (consisting of a Court of Appeal and a High Court; based on Saint Lucia; two judges of the Supreme Court reside in Saint Kitts and Nevis); member of the Caribbean Court of Justice (CCJ) 
				Saint Lucia
			Eastern Caribbean Supreme Court (consists of a High Court and a Court of Appeals; based on Saint Lucia; three judges of the Supreme Court reside in Saint Lucia); member of the Caribbean Court of Justice (CCJ) 
				Saint Pierre and Miquelon
			Superior Tribunal of Appeals or Tribunal Superieur d'Appel 
				Saint Vincent and the Grenadines
			Eastern Caribbean Supreme Court (consisting of a High Court and Court of Appeals; based on Saint Lucia; two judges of the Supreme Court reside in Saint Vincent and the Grenadines) 
				Samoa
			Court of Appeal; Supreme Court; District Court; Land and Titles Court 
				San Marino
			Council of Twelve or Consiglio dei XII 
				Sao Tome and Principe
			Supreme Court (judges are appointed by the National Assembly) 
				Saudi Arabia
			Supreme Council of Justice 
				Senegal
			Constitutional Court; Council of State; Court of Final Appeals or Cour de Cassation; Court of Appeals 
				Serbia
			Constitutional Court, Supreme Court (to become court of cassation under new constitution), appellate courts, district courts, municipal courts 
				Seychelles
			Court of Appeal; Supreme Court; judges for both courts are appointed by the president 
				Sierra Leone
			Supreme Court; Appeals Court; High Court 
				Singapore
			Supreme Court (chief justice is appointed by the president with the advice of the prime minister, other judges are appointed by the president with the advice of the chief justice); Court of Appeals 
				Slovakia
			Supreme Court (judges are elected by the National Council); Constitutional Court (judges appointed by president from group of nominees approved by the National Council); Special Court (judges elected by a council of judges and appointed by president) 
				Slovenia
			Supreme Court (judges are elected by the National Assembly on the recommendation of the Judicial Council); Constitutional Court (judges elected for nine-year terms by the National Assembly and nominated by the president) 
				Solomon Islands
			Court of Appeal 
				Somalia
			following the breakdown of the central government, most regions have reverted to local forms of conflict resolution, either secular, traditional Somali customary law, or Sharia (Islamic) law with a provision for appeal of all sentences 
				South Africa
			Constitutional Court; Supreme Court of Appeals; High Courts; Magistrate Courts 
				Spain
			Supreme Court or Tribunal Supremo 
				Sri Lanka
			Supreme Court; Court of Appeals; judges for both courts are appointed by the president 
				Sudan
			Constitutional Court of nine justices; National Supreme Court; National Courts of Appeal; other national courts; National Judicial Service Commission will undertake overall management of the National Judiciary 
				Suriname
			Cantonal Courts and a Court of Justice as an appellate court (justices are nominated for life); member of the Caribbean Court of Justice (CCJ) 
				Swaziland
			High Court; Supreme Court; judges for both courts are appointed by the monarch 
				Sweden
			Supreme Court or Hogsta Domstolen (judges are appointed by the prime minister and the cabinet) 
				Switzerland
			Federal Supreme Court (judges elected for six-year terms by the Federal Assembly) 
				Syria
			Supreme Judicial Council (appoints and dismisses judges; headed by the president); national level - Supreme Constitutional Court (adjudicates electoral disputes and rules on constitutionality of laws and decrees; justices appointed for four-year terms by the President); Court of Cassation; Appeals Courts (Appeals Courts represent an intermediate level between the Court of Cassation and local level courts); local level - Magistrate Courts; Courts of First Instance; Juvenile Courts; Customs Courts; specialized courts - Economic Security Courts (hear cases related to economic crimes); Supreme State Security Court (hear cases related to national security); Personal Status Courts (religious; hear cases related to marriage and divorce) 
				Taiwan
			Judicial Yuan (justices appointed by the president with consent of the Legislative Yuan) 
				Tajikistan
			Supreme Court (judges are appointed by the president) 
				Tanzania
			Permanent Commission of Enquiry (official ombudsman); Court of Appeal (consists of a chief justice and four judges); High Court (consists of a Jaji Kiongozi and 29 judges appointed by the president; holds regular sessions in all regions); District Courts; Primary Courts (limited jurisdiction and appeals can be made to the higher courts) 
				Thailand
			Supreme Court or Sandika (judges appointed by the monarch) 
				Timor-Leste
			Supreme Court of Justice - constitution calls for one judge to be appointed by National Parliament and rest appointed by Superior Council for Judiciary; note - until Supreme Court is established, Court of Appeals is highest court 
				Togo
			Court of Appeal or Cour d'Appel; Supreme Court or Cour Supreme 
				Tokelau
			Supreme Court in New Zealand exercises civil and criminal jurisdiction in Tokelau 
				Tonga
			Supreme Court (judges are appointed by the monarch); Court of Appeal (Chief Justice and high court justices from overseas chosen and approved by Privy Council) 
				Trinidad and Tobago
			Supreme Court of Judicature (comprised of the High Court of Justice and the Court of Appeals; the chief justice is appointed by the president after consultation with the prime minister and the leader of the opposition; other justices are appointed by the president on the advice of the Judicial and Legal Service Commission); the highest court of appeal is the Privy Council in London; member of the Caribbean Court of Justice (CCJ) 
				Tunisia
			Court of Cassation or Cour de Cassation 
				Turkey
			Constitutional Court; High Court of Appeals (Yargitay); Council of State (Danistay); Court of Accounts (Sayistay); Military High Court of Appeals; Military High Administrative Court 
				Turkmenistan
			Supreme Court (judges are appointed by the president) 
				Turks and Caicos Islands
			Supreme Court; Court of Appeal 
				Tuvalu
			High Court (a chief justice visits twice a year to preside over its sessions; its rulings can be appealed to the Court of Appeal in Fiji); eight Island Courts (with limited jurisdiction) 
				Uganda
			Court of Appeal (judges are appointed by the president and approved by the legislature); High Court (judges are appointed by the president) 
				Ukraine
			Supreme Court; Constitutional Court 
				United Arab Emirates
			Union Supreme Court (judges are appointed by the president) 
				United Kingdom
			House of Lords (highest court of appeal; several Lords of Appeal in Ordinary are appointed by the monarch for life); Supreme Courts of England, Wales, and Northern Ireland (comprising the Courts of Appeal, the High Courts of Justice, and the Crown Courts); Scotland's Court of Session and Court of the Justiciary 
				United States
			Supreme Court (nine justices; nominated by the president and confirmed with the advice and consent of the Senate; appointed to serve for life); United States Courts of Appeal; United States District Courts; State and County Courts 
				Uruguay
			Supreme Court (judges are nominated by the president and elected for 10-year terms by the General Assembly) 
				Uzbekistan
			Supreme Court (judges are nominated by the president and confirmed by the Supreme Assembly) 
				Vanuatu
			Supreme Court (chief justice is appointed by the president after consultation with the prime minister and the leader of the opposition, three other justices are appointed by the president on the advice of the Judicial Service Commission) 
				Venezuela
			Supreme Tribunal of Justice or Tribuna Suprema de Justicia (magistrates are elected by the National Assembly for a single 12-year term) 
				Vietnam
			Supreme People's Court (chief justice is elected for a five-year term by the National Assembly on the recommendation of the president) 
				Virgin Islands
			US District Court of the Virgin Islands (under Third Circuit jurisdiction); Superior Court of the Virgin Islands (judges appointed by the governor for 10-year terms) 
				Wallis and Futuna
			justice generally administered under French law by the high administrator, but the three traditional kings administer customary law and there is a magistrate in Mata-Utu; a court of appeal is located in Noumea, New Caledonia 
				Yemen
			Supreme Court 
				Zambia
			Supreme Court (the final court of appeal; justices are appointed by the president); High Court (has unlimited jurisdiction to hear civil and criminal cases) 
				Zimbabwe
			Supreme Court; High Court  		
				This page was last updated on 19 March 2009
&nbsp; 
CIA - The World Factbook -- Field Listing - Country name
&nbsp; 
				    &nbsp; 
                    Field Listing - Country name
         Home 
          &nbsp;Reference Maps 
          &nbsp;Appendixes 
			Country
			Country name 	
				Afghanistan
				conventional long form: Islamic Republic of Afghanistan 
				conventional short form: Afghanistan 
				local long form: Jomhuri-ye Eslami-ye Afghanestan 
				local short form: Afghanestan 
				former: Republic of Afghanistan 
				Akrotiri
				conventional long form: Akrotiri Sovereign Base Area 
				conventional short form: Akrotiri 
				Albania
				conventional long form: Republic of Albania 
				conventional short form: Albania 
				local long form: Republika e Shqiperise 
				local short form: Shqiperia 
				former: People's Socialist Republic of Albania 
				Algeria
				conventional long form: People's Democratic Republic of Algeria 
				conventional short form: Algeria 
				local long form: Al Jumhuriyah al Jaza'iriyah ad Dimuqratiyah ash Sha'biyah 
				local short form: Al Jaza'ir 
				American Samoa
				conventional long form: Territory of American Samoa 
				conventional short form: American Samoa 
				abbreviation: AS 
				Andorra
				conventional long form: Principality of Andorra 
				conventional short form: Andorra 
				local long form: Principat d'Andorra 
				local short form: Andorra 
				Angola
				conventional long form: Republic of Angola 
				conventional short form: Angola 
				local long form: Republica de Angola 
				local short form: Angola 
				former: People's Republic of Angola 
				Anguilla
				conventional long form: none 
				conventional short form: Anguilla 
				Antarctica
				conventional long form: none 
				conventional short form: Antarctica 
				Antigua and Barbuda
				conventional long form: none 
				conventional short form: Antigua and Barbuda 
				Argentina
				conventional long form: Argentine Republic 
				conventional short form: Argentina 
				local long form: Republica Argentina 
				local short form: Argentina 
				Armenia
				conventional long form: Republic of Armenia 
				conventional short form: Armenia 
				local long form: Hayastani Hanrapetut'yun 
				local short form: Hayastan 
				former: Armenian Soviet Socialist Republic, Armenian Republic 
				Aruba
				conventional long form: none 
				conventional short form: Aruba 
				Ashmore and Cartier Islands
				conventional long form: Territory of Ashmore and Cartier Islands 
				conventional short form: Ashmore and Cartier Islands 
				Australia
				conventional long form: Commonwealth of Australia 
				conventional short form: Australia 
				Austria
				conventional long form: Republic of Austria 
				conventional short form: Austria 
				local long form: Republik Oesterreich 
				local short form: Oesterreich 
				Azerbaijan
				conventional long form: Republic of Azerbaijan 
				conventional short form: Azerbaijan 
				local long form: Azarbaycan Respublikasi 
				local short form: Azarbaycan 
				former: Azerbaijan Soviet Socialist Republic 
				Bahamas, The
				conventional long form: Commonwealth of The Bahamas 
				conventional short form: The Bahamas 
				Bahrain
				conventional long form: Kingdom of Bahrain 
				conventional short form: Bahrain 
				local long form: Mamlakat al Bahrayn 
				local short form: Al Bahrayn 
				former: Dilmun 
				Bangladesh
				conventional long form: People's Republic of Bangladesh 
				conventional short form: Bangladesh 
				local long form: Gana Prajatantri Banladesh 
				local short form: Banladesh 
				former: East Bengal, East Pakistan 
				Barbados
				conventional long form: none 
				conventional short form: Barbados 
				Belarus
				conventional long form: Republic of Belarus 
				conventional short form: Belarus 
				local long form: Respublika Byelarus' 
				local short form: Byelarus' 
				former: Belorussian (Byelorussian) Soviet Socialist Republic 
				Belgium
				conventional long form: Kingdom of Belgium 
				conventional short form: Belgium 
				local long form: Royaume de Belgique/Koninkrijk Belgie 
				local short form: Belgique/Belgie 
				Belize
				conventional long form: none 
				conventional short form: Belize 
				former: British Honduras 
				Benin
				conventional long form: Republic of Benin 
				conventional short form: Benin 
				local long form: Republique du Benin 
				local short form: Benin 
				former: Dahomey 
				Bermuda
				conventional long form: none 
				conventional short form: Bermuda 
				former: Somers Islands 
				Bhutan
				conventional long form: Kingdom of Bhutan 
				conventional short form: Bhutan 
				local long form: Druk Gyalkhap 
				local short form: Druk Yul 
				Bolivia
				conventional long form: Republic of Bolivia 
				conventional short form: Bolivia 
				local long form: Republica de Bolivia 
				local short form: Bolivia 
				Bosnia and Herzegovina
				conventional long form: none 
				conventional short form: Bosnia and Herzegovina 
				local long form: none 
				local short form: Bosna i Hercegovina 
				former: People's Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Socialist Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina 
				Botswana
				conventional long form: Republic of Botswana 
				conventional short form: Botswana 
				local long form: Republic of Botswana 
				local short form: Botswana 
				former: Bechuanaland 
				Bouvet Island
				conventional long form: none 
				conventional short form: Bouvet Island 
				Brazil
				conventional long form: Federative Republic of Brazil 
				conventional short form: Brazil 
				local long form: Republica Federativa do Brasil 
				local short form: Brasil 
				British Indian Ocean Territory
				conventional long form: British Indian Ocean Territory 
				conventional short form: none 
				abbreviation: BIOT 
				British Virgin Islands
				conventional long form: none 
				conventional short form: British Virgin Islands 
				abbreviation: BVI 
				Brunei
				conventional long form: Brunei Darussalam 
				conventional short form: Brunei 
				local long form: Negara Brunei Darussalam 
				local short form: Brunei 
				Bulgaria
				conventional long form: Republic of Bulgaria 
				conventional short form: Bulgaria 
				local long form: Republika Balgariya 
				local short form: Balgariya 
				Burkina Faso
				conventional long form: none 
				conventional short form: Burkina Faso 
				local long form: none 
				local short form: Burkina Faso 
				former: Upper Volta, Republic of Upper Volta 
				Burma
				conventional long form: Union of Burma 
				conventional short form: Burma 
				local long form: Pyidaungzu Myanma Naingngandaw (translated by the US Government as Union of Myanma and by the Burmese as Union of Myanmar) 
				local short form: Myanma Naingngandaw 
				former: Socialist Republic of the Union of Burma 
				note: since 1989 the military authorities in Burma have promoted the name Myanmar as a conventional name for their state; this decision was not approved by any sitting legislature in Burma, and the US Government did not adopt the name, which is a derivative of the Burmese short-form name Myanma Naingngandaw 
				Burundi
				conventional long form: Republic of Burundi 
				conventional short form: Burundi 
				local long form: Republique du Burundi/Republika y'u Burundi 
				local short form: Burundi 
				former: Urundi 
				Cambodia
				conventional long form: Kingdom of Cambodia 
				conventional short form: Cambodia 
				local long form: Preahreacheanachakr Kampuchea (phonetic pronunciation) 
				local short form: Kampuchea 
				former: Khmer Republic, Democratic Kampuchea, People's Republic of Kampuchea, State of Cambodia 
				Cameroon
				conventional long form: Republic of Cameroon 
				conventional short form: Cameroon 
				local long form: Republique du Cameroun/Republic of Cameroon 
				local short form: Cameroun/Cameroon 
				former: French Cameroon, British Cameroon, Federal Republic of Cameroon, United Republic of Cameroon 
				Canada
				conventional long form: none 
				conventional short form: Canada 
				Cape Verde
				conventional long form: Republic of Cape Verde 
				conventional short form: Cape Verde 
				local long form: Republica de Cabo Verde 
				local short form: Cabo Verde 
				Cayman Islands
				conventional long form: none 
				conventional short form: Cayman Islands 
				Central African Republic
				conventional long form: Central African Republic 
				conventional short form: none 
				local long form: Republique Centrafricaine 
				local short form: none 
				former: Ubangi-Shari, Central African Empire 
				abbreviation: CAR 
				Chad
				conventional long form: Republic of Chad 
				conventional short form: Chad 
				local long form: Republique du Tchad/Jumhuriyat Tshad 
				local short form: Tchad/Tshad 
				Chile
				conventional long form: Republic of Chile 
				conventional short form: Chile 
				local long form: Republica de Chile 
				local short form: Chile 
				China
				conventional long form: People's Republic of China 
				conventional short form: China 
				local long form: Zhonghua Renmin Gongheguo 
				local short form: Zhongguo 
				abbreviation: PRC 
				Christmas Island
				conventional long form: Territory of Christmas Island 
				conventional short form: Christmas Island 
				Clipperton Island
				conventional long form: none 
				conventional short form: Clipperton Island 
				local long form: none 
				local short form: Ile Clipperton 
				former: sometimes called Ile de la Passion 
				Cocos (Keeling) Islands
				conventional long form: Territory of Cocos (Keeling) Islands 
				conventional short form: Cocos (Keeling) Islands 
				Colombia
				conventional long form: Republic of Colombia 
				conventional short form: Colombia 
				local long form: Republica de Colombia 
				local short form: Colombia 
				Comoros
				conventional long form: Union of the Comoros 
				conventional short form: Comoros 
				local long form: Union des Comores 
				local short form: Comores 
				Congo, Democratic Republic of the
				conventional long form: Democratic Republic of the Congo 
				conventional short form: none 
				local long form: Republique Democratique du Congo 
				local short form: none 
				former: Congo Free State, Belgian Congo, Congo/Leopoldville, Congo/Kinshasa, Zaire 
				abbreviation: DROC 
				Congo, Republic of the
				conventional long form: Republic of the Congo 
				conventional short form: Congo (Brazzaville) 
				local long form: Republique du Congo 
				local short form: none 
				former: Middle Congo, Congo/Brazzaville, Congo 
				Cook Islands
				conventional long form: none 
				conventional short form: Cook Islands 
				former: Harvey Islands 
				Coral Sea Islands
				conventional long form: Coral Sea Islands Territory 
				conventional short form: Coral Sea Islands 
				Costa Rica
				conventional long form: Republic of Costa Rica 
				conventional short form: Costa Rica 
				local long form: Republica de Costa Rica 
				local short form: Costa Rica 
				Cote d'Ivoire
				conventional long form: Republic of Cote d'Ivoire 
				conventional short form: Cote d'Ivoire 
				local long form: Republique de Cote d'Ivoire 
				local short form: Cote d'Ivoire 
				note: pronounced coat-div-whar 
				former: Ivory Coast 
				Croatia
				conventional long form: Republic of Croatia 
				conventional short form: Croatia 
				local long form: Republika Hrvatska 
				local short form: Hrvatska 
				former: People's Republic of Croatia, Socialist Republic of Croatia 
				Cuba
				conventional long form: Republic of Cuba 
				conventional short form: Cuba 
				local long form: Republica de Cuba 
				local short form: Cuba 
				Cyprus
				conventional long form: Republic of Cyprus 
				conventional short form: Cyprus 
				local long form: Kypriaki Dimokratia/Kibris Cumhuriyeti 
				local short form: Kypros/Kibris 
				note: the Turkish Cypriot community, which administers the northern part of the island, refers to itself as the "Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus" ("TRNC") 
				Czech Republic
				conventional long form: Czech Republic 
				conventional short form: Czech Republic 
				local long form: Ceska Republika 
				local short form: Cesko 
				Denmark
				conventional long form: Kingdom of Denmark 
				conventional short form: Denmark 
				local long form: Kongeriget Danmark 
				local short form: Danmark 
				Dhekelia
				conventional long form: Dhekelia Sovereign Base Area 
				conventional short form: Dhekelia 
				Djibouti
				conventional long form: Republic of Djibouti 
				conventional short form: Djibouti 
				local long form: Republique de Djibouti/Jumhuriyat Jibuti 
				local short form: Djibouti/Jibuti 
				former: French Territory of the Afars and Issas, French Somaliland 
				Dominica
				conventional long form: Commonwealth of Dominica 
				conventional short form: Dominica 
				Dominican Republic
				conventional long form: Dominican Republic 
				conventional short form: The Dominican 
				local long form: Republica Dominicana 
				local short form: La Dominicana 
				Ecuador
				conventional long form: Republic of Ecuador 
				conventional short form: Ecuador 
				local long form: Republica del Ecuador 
				local short form: Ecuador 
				Egypt
				conventional long form: Arab Republic of Egypt 
				conventional short form: Egypt 
				local long form: Jumhuriyat Misr al-Arabiyah 
				local short form: Misr 
				former: United Arab Republic (with Syria) 
				El Salvador
				conventional long form: Republic of El Salvador 
				conventional short form: El Salvador 
				local long form: Republica de El Salvador 
				local short form: El Salvador 
				Equatorial Guinea
				conventional long form: Republic of Equatorial Guinea 
				conventional short form: Equatorial Guinea 
				local long form: Republica de Guinea Ecuatorial/Republique de Guinee equatoriale 
				local short form: Guinea Ecuatorial/Guinee equatoriale 
				former: Spanish Guinea 
				Eritrea
				conventional long form: State of Eritrea 
				conventional short form: Eritrea 
				local long form: Hagere Ertra 
				local short form: Ertra 
				former: Eritrea Autonomous Region in Ethiopia 
				Estonia
				conventional long form: Republic of Estonia 
				conventional short form: Estonia 
				local long form: Eesti Vabariik 
				local short form: Eesti 
				former: Estonian Soviet Socialist Republic 
				Ethiopia
				conventional long form: Federal Democratic Republic of Ethiopia 
				conventional short form: Ethiopia 
				local long form: Ityop'iya Federalawi Demokrasiyawi Ripeblik 
				local short form: Ityop'iya 
				former: Abyssinia, Italian East Africa 
				abbreviation: FDRE 
				Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas)
				conventional long form: none 
				conventional short form: Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas) 
				Faroe Islands
				conventional long form: none 
				conventional short form: Faroe Islands 
				local long form: none 
				local short form: Foroyar 
				Fiji
				conventional long form: Republic of the Fiji Islands 
				conventional short form: Fiji 
				local long form: Republic of the Fiji Islands/Matanitu ko Viti 
				local short form: Fiji/Viti 
				Finland
				conventional long form: Republic of Finland 
				conventional short form: Finland 
				local long form: Suomen tasavalta/Republiken Finland 
				local short form: Suomi/Finland 
				France
				conventional long form: French Republic 
				conventional short form: France 
				local long form: Republique francaise 
				local short form: France 
				French Polynesia
				conventional long form: Overseas Lands of French Polynesia 
				conventional short form: French Polynesia 
				local long form: Pays d'outre-mer de la Polynesie Francaise 
				local short form: Polynesie Francaise 
				former: French Colony of Oceania 
				French Southern and Antarctic Lands
				conventional long form: Territory of the French Southern and Antarctic Lands 
				conventional short form: French Southern and Antarctic Lands 
				local long form: Territoire des Terres Australes et Antarctiques Francaises 
				local short form: Terres Australes et Antarctiques Francaises 
				abbreviation: TAAF 
				Gabon
				conventional long form: Gabonese Republic 
				conventional short form: Gabon 
				local long form: Republique gabonaise 
				local short form: Gabon 
				Gambia, The
				conventional long form: Republic of The Gambia 
				conventional short form: The Gambia 
				Gaza Strip
				conventional long form: none 
				conventional short form: Gaza Strip 
				local long form: none 
				local short form: Qita Ghazzah 
				Georgia
				conventional long form: none 
				conventional short form: Georgia 
				local long form: none 
				local short form: Sak'art'velo 
				former: Georgian Soviet Socialist Republic 
				Germany
				conventional long form: Federal Republic of Germany 
				conventional short form: Germany 
				local long form: Bundesrepublik Deutschland 
				local short form: Deutschland 
				former: German Empire, German Republic, German Reich 
				Ghana
				conventional long form: Republic of Ghana 
				conventional short form: Ghana 
				former: Gold Coast 
				Gibraltar
				conventional long form: none 
				conventional short form: Gibraltar 
				Greece
				conventional long form: Hellenic Republic 
				conventional short form: Greece 
				local long form: Elliniki Dhimokratia 
				local short form: Ellas or Ellada 
				former: Kingdom of Greece 
				Greenland
				conventional long form: none 
				conventional short form: Greenland 
				local long form: none 
				local short form: Kalaallit Nunaat 
				Grenada
				conventional long form: none 
				conventional short form: Grenada 
				Guam
				conventional long form: Territory of Guam 
				conventional short form: Guam 
				local long form: Guahan 
				local short form: Guahan 
				Guatemala
				conventional long form: Republic of Guatemala 
				conventional short form: Guatemala 
				local long form: Republica de Guatemala 
				local short form: Guatemala 
				Guernsey
				conventional long form: Bailiwick of Guernsey 
				conventional short form: Guernsey 
				Guinea
				conventional long form: Republic of Guinea 
				conventional short form: Guinea 
				local long form: Republique de Guinee 
				local short form: Guinee 
				former: French Guinea 
				Guinea-Bissau
				conventional long form: Republic of Guinea-Bissau 
				conventional short form: Guinea-Bissau 
				local long form: Republica da Guine-Bissau 
				local short form: Guine-Bissau 
				former: Portuguese Guinea 
				Guyana
				conventional long form: Cooperative Republic of Guyana 
				conventional short form: Guyana 
				former: British Guiana 
				Haiti
				conventional long form: Republic of Haiti 
				conventional short form: Haiti 
				local long form: Republique d'Haiti/Repiblik d' Ayiti 
				local short form: Haiti/Ayiti 
				Heard Island and McDonald Islands
				conventional long form: Territory of Heard Island and McDonald Islands 
				conventional short form: Heard Island and McDonald Islands 
				abbreviation: HIMI 
				Holy See (Vatican City)
				conventional long form: The Holy See (State of the Vatican City) 
				conventional short form: Holy See (Vatican City) 
				local long form: Santa Sede (Stato della Citta del Vaticano) 
				local short form: Santa Sede (Citta del Vaticano) 
				Honduras
				conventional long form: Republic of Honduras 
				conventional short form: Honduras 
				local long form: Republica de Honduras 
				local short form: Honduras 
				Hong Kong
				conventional long form: Hong Kong Special Administrative Region 
				conventional short form: Hong Kong 
				local long form: Xianggang Tebie Xingzhengqu 
				local short form: Xianggang 
				abbreviation: HK 
				Hungary
				conventional long form: Republic of Hungary 
				conventional short form: Hungary 
				local long form: Magyar Koztarsasag 
				local short form: Magyarorszag 
				Iceland
				conventional long form: Republic of Iceland 
				conventional short form: Iceland 
				local long form: Lydveldid Island 
				local short form: Island 
				India
				conventional long form: Republic of India 
				conventional short form: India 
				local long form: Republic of India/Bharatiya Ganarajya 
				local short form: India/Bharat 
				Indonesia
				conventional long form: Republic of Indonesia 
				conventional short form: Indonesia 
				local long form: Republik Indonesia 
				local short form: Indonesia 
				former: Netherlands East Indies, Dutch East Indies 
				Iran
				conventional long form: Islamic Republic of Iran 
				conventional short form: Iran 
				local long form: Jomhuri-ye Eslami-ye Iran 
				local short form: Iran 
				former: Persia 
				Iraq
				conventional long form: Republic of Iraq 
				conventional short form: Iraq 
				local long form: Al Jumhuriyah al-Iraqiyah 
				local short form: Al Iraq 
				Ireland
				conventional long form: none 
				conventional short form: Ireland 
				local long form: none 
				local short form: Eire 
				Isle of Man
				conventional long form: none 
				conventional short form: Isle of Man 
				abbreviation: I.O.M. 
				Israel
				conventional long form: State of Israel 
				conventional short form: Israel 
				local long form: Medinat Yisra'el 
				local short form: Yisra'el 
				Italy
				conventional long form: Italian Republic 
				conventional short form: Italy 
				local long form: Repubblica Italiana 
				local short form: Italia 
				former: Kingdom of Italy 
				Jamaica
				conventional long form: none 
				conventional short form: Jamaica 
				Jan Mayen
				conventional long form: none 
				conventional short form: Jan Mayen 
				Japan
				conventional long form: none 
				conventional short form: Japan 
				local long form: Nihon-koku/Nippon-koku 
				local short form: Nihon/Nippon 
				Jersey
				conventional long form: Bailiwick of Jersey 
				conventional short form: Jersey 
				Jordan
				conventional long form: Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan 
				conventional short form: Jordan 
				local long form: Al Mamlakah al Urduniyah al Hashimiyah 
				local short form: Al Urdun 
				former: Transjordan 
				Kazakhstan
				conventional long form: Republic of Kazakhstan 
				conventional short form: Kazakhstan 
				local long form: Qazaqstan Respublikasy 
				local short form: Qazaqstan 
				former: Kazakh Soviet Socialist Republic 
				Kenya
				conventional long form: Republic of Kenya 
				conventional short form: Kenya 
				local long form: Republic of Kenya/Jamhuri ya Kenya 
				local short form: Kenya 
				former: British East Africa 
				Kiribati
				conventional long form: Republic of Kiribati 
				conventional short form: Kiribati 
				local long form: Republic of Kiribati 
				local short form: Kiribati 
				note: pronounced keer-ree-bahss 
				former: Gilbert Islands 
				Korea, North
				conventional long form: Democratic People's Republic of Korea 
				conventional short form: North Korea 
				local long form: Choson-minjujuui-inmin-konghwaguk 
				local short form: Choson 
				abbreviation: DPRK 
				Korea, South
				conventional long form: Republic of Korea 
				conventional short form: South Korea 
				local long form: Taehan-min'guk 
				local short form: Han'guk 
				abbreviation: ROK 
				Kosovo
				conventional long form: Republic of Kosovo 
				conventional short form: Kosovo 
				local long form: Republika e Kosoves (Republika Kosova) 
				local short form: Kosova (Kosovo) 
				Kuwait
				conventional long form: State of Kuwait 
				conventional short form: Kuwait 
				local long form: Dawlat al Kuwayt 
				local short form: Al Kuwayt 
				Kyrgyzstan
				conventional long form: Kyrgyz Republic 
				conventional short form: Kyrgyzstan 
				local long form: Kyrgyz Respublikasy 
				local short form: Kyrgyzstan 
				former: Kirghiz Soviet Socialist Republic 
				Laos
				conventional long form: Lao People's Democratic Republic 
				conventional short form: Laos 
				local long form: Sathalanalat Paxathipatai Paxaxon Lao 
				local short form: none 
				Latvia
				conventional long form: Republic of Latvia 
				conventional short form: Latvia 
				local long form: Latvijas Republika 
				local short form: Latvija 
				former: Latvian Soviet Socialist Republic 
				Lebanon
				conventional long form: Lebanese Republic 
				conventional short form: Lebanon 
				local long form: Al Jumhuriyah al Lubnaniyah 
				local short form: Lubnan 
				former: Greater Lebanon 
				Lesotho
				conventional long form: Kingdom of Lesotho 
				conventional short form: Lesotho 
				local long form: Kingdom of Lesotho 
				local short form: Lesotho 
				former: Basutoland 
				Liberia
				conventional long form: Republic of Liberia 
				conventional short form: Liberia 
				Libya
				conventional long form: Great Socialist People's Libyan Arab Jamahiriya 
				conventional short form: Libya 
				local long form: Al Jamahiriyah al Arabiyah al Libiyah ash Shabiyah al Ishtirakiyah al Uthma 
				local short form: none 
				Liechtenstein
				conventional long form: Principality of Liechtenstein 
				conventional short form: Liechtenstein 
				local long form: Fuerstentum Liechtenstein 
				local short form: Liechtenstein 
				Lithuania
				conventional long form: Republic of Lithuania 
				conventional short form: Lithuania 
				local long form: Lietuvos Respublika 
				local short form: Lietuva 
				former: Lithuanian Soviet Socialist Republic 
				Luxembourg
				conventional long form: Grand Duchy of Luxembourg 
				conventional short form: Luxembourg 
				local long form: Grand Duche de Luxembourg 
				local short form: Luxembourg 
				Macau
				conventional long form: Macau Special Administrative Region 
				conventional short form: Macau 
				local long form: Aomen Tebie Xingzhengqu (Chinese); Regiao Administrativa Especial de Macau (Portuguese) 
				local short form: Aomen (Chinese); Macau (Portuguese) 
				Macedonia
				conventional long form: Republic of Macedonia 
				conventional short form: Macedonia 
				local long form: Republika Makedonija 
				local short form: Makedonija 
				note: the provisional designation used by the UN, EU, and NATO is the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia (FYROM) 
				former: People's Republic of Macedonia, Socialist Republic of Macedonia 
				Madagascar
				conventional long form: Republic of Madagascar 
				conventional short form: Madagascar 
				local long form: Republique de Madagascar/Repoblikan'i Madagasikara 
				local short form: Madagascar/Madagasikara 
				former: Malagasy Republic 
				Malawi
				conventional long form: Republic of Malawi 
				conventional short form: Malawi 
				local long form: Dziko la Malawi 
				local short form: Malawi 
				former: British Central African Protectorate, Nyasaland Protectorate, Nyasaland 
				Malaysia
				conventional long form: none 
				conventional short form: Malaysia 
				local long form: none 
				local short form: Malaysia 
				former: Federation of Malaya 
				Maldives
				conventional long form: Republic of Maldives 
				conventional short form: Maldives 
				local long form: Dhivehi Raajjeyge Jumhooriyyaa 
				local short form: Dhivehi Raajje 
				Mali
				conventional long form: Republic of Mali 
				conventional short form: Mali 
				local long form: Republique de Mali 
				local short form: Mali 
				former: French Sudan and Sudanese Republic 
				Malta
				conventional long form: Republic of Malta 
				conventional short form: Malta 
				local long form: Repubblika ta' Malta 
				local short form: Malta 
				Marshall Islands
				conventional long form: Republic of the Marshall Islands 
				conventional short form: Marshall Islands 
				local long form: Republic of the Marshall Islands 
				local short form: Marshall Islands 
				abbreviation: RMI 
				former: Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands, Marshall Islands District 
				Mauritania
				conventional long form: Islamic Republic of Mauritania 
				conventional short form: Mauritania 
				local long form: Al Jumhuriyah al Islamiyah al Muritaniyah 
				local short form: Muritaniyah 
				Mauritius
				conventional long form: Republic of Mauritius 
				conventional short form: Mauritius 
				local long form: Republic of Mauritius 
				local short form: Mauritius 
				Mayotte
				conventional long form: Territorial Collectivity of Mayotte 
				conventional short form: Mayotte 
				Mexico
				conventional long form: United Mexican States 
				conventional short form: Mexico 
				local long form: Estados Unidos Mexicanos 
				local short form: Mexico 
				Micronesia, Federated States of
				conventional long form: Federated States of Micronesia 
				conventional short form: none 
				local long form: Federated States of Micronesia 
				local short form: none 
				former: Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands, Ponape, Truk, and Yap Districts 
				abbreviation: FSM 
				Moldova
				conventional long form: Republic of Moldova 
				conventional short form: Moldova 
				local long form: Republica Moldova 
				local short form: Moldova 
				former: Moldavian Soviet Socialist Republic, Moldovan Soviet Socialist Republic 
				Monaco
				conventional long form: Principality of Monaco 
				conventional short form: Monaco 
				local long form: Principaute de Monaco 
				local short form: Monaco 
				Mongolia
				conventional long form: none 
				conventional short form: Mongolia 
				local long form: none 
				local short form: Mongol Uls 
				former: Outer Mongolia 
				Montenegro
				conventional long form: none 
				conventional short form: Montenegro 
				local long form: none 
				local short form: Crna Gora 
				former: People's Republic of Montenegro, Socialist Republic of Montenegro, Republic of Montenegro 
				Montserrat
				conventional long form: none 
				conventional short form: Montserrat 
				Morocco
				conventional long form: Kingdom of Morocco 
				conventional short form: Morocco 
				local long form: Al Mamlakah al Maghribiyah 
				local short form: Al Maghrib 
				Mozambique
				conventional long form: Republic of Mozambique 
				conventional short form: Mozambique 
				local long form: Republica de Mocambique 
				local short form: Mocambique 
				former: Portuguese East Africa 
				Namibia
				conventional long form: Republic of Namibia 
				conventional short form: Namibia 
				local long form: Republic of Namibia 
				local short form: Namibia 
				former: German Southwest Africa, South-West Africa 
				Nauru
				conventional long form: Republic of Nauru 
				conventional short form: Nauru 
				local long form: Republic of Nauru 
				local short form: Nauru 
				former: Pleasant Island 
				Navassa Island
				conventional long form: none 
				conventional short form: Navassa Island 
				Nepal
				conventional long form: Federal Democratic Republic of Nepal 
				conventional short form: Nepal 
				local long form: Sanghiya Loktantrik Ganatantra Nepal 
				local short form: Nepal 
				Netherlands
				conventional long form: Kingdom of the Netherlands 
				conventional short form: Netherlands 
				local long form: Koninkrijk der Nederlanden 
				local short form: Nederland 
				Netherlands Antilles
				conventional long form: none 
				conventional short form: Netherlands Antilles 
				local long form: none 
				local short form: Nederlandse Antillen 
				former: Curacao and Dependencies 
				New Caledonia
				conventional long form: Territory of New Caledonia and Dependencies 
				conventional short form: New Caledonia 
				local long form: Territoire des Nouvelle-Caledonie et Dependances 
				local short form: Nouvelle-Caledonie 
				New Zealand
				conventional long form: none 
				conventional short form: New Zealand 
				abbreviation: NZ 
				Nicaragua
				conventional long form: Republic of Nicaragua 
				conventional short form: Nicaragua 
				local long form: Republica de Nicaragua 
				local short form: Nicaragua 
				Niger
				conventional long form: Republic of Niger 
				conventional short form: Niger 
				local long form: Republique du Niger 
				local short form: Niger 
				Nigeria
				conventional long form: Federal Republic of Nigeria 
				conventional short form: Nigeria 
				Niue
				conventional long form: none 
				conventional short form: Niue 
				note: pronounciation falls between nyu-way and new-way, but not like new-wee 
				former: Savage Island 
				Norfolk Island
				conventional long form: Territory of Norfolk Island 
				conventional short form: Norfolk Island 
				Northern Mariana Islands
				conventional long form: Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands 
				conventional short form: Northern Mariana Islands 
				abbreviation: CNMI 
				former: Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands, Mariana Islands District 
				Norway
				conventional long form: Kingdom of Norway 
				conventional short form: Norway 
				local long form: Kongeriket Norge 
				local short form: Norge 
				Oman
				conventional long form: Sultanate of Oman 
				conventional short form: Oman 
				local long form: Saltanat Uman 
				local short form: Uman 
				former: Muscat and Oman 
				Pakistan
				conventional long form: Islamic Republic of Pakistan 
				conventional short form: Pakistan 
				local long form: Jamhuryat Islami Pakistan 
				local short form: Pakistan 
				former: West Pakistan 
				Palau
				conventional long form: Republic of Palau 
				conventional short form: Palau 
				local long form: Beluu er a Belau 
				local short form: Belau 
				former: Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands, Palau District 
				Panama
				conventional long form: Republic of Panama 
				conventional short form: Panama 
				local long form: Republica de Panama 
				local short form: Panama 
				Papua New Guinea
				conventional long form: Independent State of Papua New Guinea 
				conventional short form: Papua New Guinea 
				local short form: Papuaniugini 
				former: Territory of Papua and New Guinea 
				abbreviation: PNG 
				Paracel Islands
				conventional long form: none 
				conventional short form: Paracel Islands 
				Paraguay
				conventional long form: Republic of Paraguay 
				conventional short form: Paraguay 
				local long form: Republica del Paraguay 
				local short form: Paraguay 
				Peru
				conventional long form: Republic of Peru 
				conventional short form: Peru 
				local long form: Republica del Peru 
				local short form: Peru 
				Philippines
				conventional long form: Republic of the Philippines 
				conventional short form: Philippines 
				local long form: Republika ng Pilipinas 
				local short form: Pilipinas 
				Pitcairn Islands
				conventional long form: Pitcairn, Henderson, Ducie, and Oeno Islands 
				conventional short form: Pitcairn Islands 
				Poland
				conventional long form: Republic of Poland 
				conventional short form: Poland 
				local long form: Rzeczpospolita Polska 
				local short form: Polska 
				Portugal
				conventional long form: Portuguese Republic 
				conventional short form: Portugal 
				local long form: Republica Portuguesa 
				local short form: Portugal 
				Puerto Rico
				conventional long form: Commonwealth of Puerto Rico 
				conventional short form: Puerto Rico 
				Qatar
				conventional long form: State of Qatar 
				conventional short form: Qatar 
				local long form: Dawlat Qatar 
				local short form: Qatar 
				note: closest approximation of the native pronunciation falls between cutter and gutter, but not like guitar 
				Romania
				conventional long form: none 
				conventional short form: Romania 
				local long form: none 
				local short form: Romania 
				Russia
				conventional long form: Russian Federation 
				conventional short form: Russia 
				local long form: Rossiyskaya Federatsiya 
				local short form: Rossiya 
				former: Russian Empire, Russian Soviet Federative Socialist Republic 
				Rwanda
				conventional long form: Republic of Rwanda 
				conventional short form: Rwanda 
				local long form: Republika y'u Rwanda 
				local short form: Rwanda 
				former: Ruanda, German East Africa 
				Saint Barthelemy
				conventional long form: Overseas Collectivity of Saint Barthelemy 
				conventional short form: Saint Barthelemy 
				local long form: Collectivite d'outre mer de Saint-Barthelemy 
				local short form: Saint-Barthelemy 
				Saint Helena
				conventional long form: none 
				conventional short form: Saint Helena 
				Saint Kitts and Nevis
				conventional long form: Federation of Saint Kitts and Nevis 
				conventional short form: Saint Kitts and Nevis 
				former: Federation of Saint Christopher and Nevis 
				Saint Lucia
				conventional long form: none 
				conventional short form: Saint Lucia 
				Saint Martin
				conventional long form: Overseas Collectivity of Saint Martin 
				conventional short form: Saint Martin 
				local long form: Collectivity d'outre mer de Saint-Martin 
				local short form: Saint-Martin 
				Saint Pierre and Miquelon
				conventional long form: Territorial Collectivity of Saint Pierre and Miquelon 
				conventional short form: Saint Pierre and Miquelon 
				local long form: Departement de Saint-Pierre et Miquelon 
				local short form: Saint-Pierre et Miquelon 
				Saint Vincent and the Grenadines
				conventional long form: none 
				conventional short form: Saint Vincent and the Grenadines 
				Samoa
				conventional long form: Independent State of Samoa 
				conventional short form: Samoa 
				local long form: Malo Sa'oloto Tuto'atasi o Samoa 
				local short form: Samoa 
				former: Western Samoa 
				San Marino
				conventional long form: Republic of San Marino 
				conventional short form: San Marino 
				local long form: Repubblica di San Marino 
				local short form: San Marino 
				Sao Tome and Principe
				conventional long form: Democratic Republic of Sao Tome and Principe 
				conventional short form: Sao Tome and Principe 
				local long form: Republica Democratica de Sao Tome e Principe 
				local short form: Sao Tome e Principe 
				Saudi Arabia
				conventional long form: Kingdom of Saudi Arabia 
				conventional short form: Saudi Arabia 
				local long form: Al Mamlakah al Arabiyah as Suudiyah 
				local short form: Al Arabiyah as Suudiyah 
				Senegal
				conventional long form: Republic of Senegal 
				conventional short form: Senegal 
				local long form: Republique du Senegal 
				local short form: Senegal 
				former: Senegambia (along with The Gambia), Mali Federation 
				Serbia
				conventional long form: Republic of Serbia 
				conventional short form: Serbia 
				local long form: Republika Srbija 
				local short form: Srbija 
				former: People's Republic of Serbia, Socialist Republic of Serbia 
				Seychelles
				conventional long form: Republic of Seychelles 
				conventional short form: Seychelles 
				local long form: Republic of Seychelles 
				local short form: Seychelles 
				Sierra Leone
				conventional long form: Republic of Sierra Leone 
				conventional short form: Sierra Leone 
				local long form: Republic of Sierra Leone 
				local short form: Sierra Leone 
				Singapore
				conventional long form: Republic of Singapore 
				conventional short form: Singapore 
				local long form: Republic of Singapore 
				local short form: Singapore 
				Slovakia
				conventional long form: Slovak Republic 
				conventional short form: Slovakia 
				local long form: Slovenska Republika 
				local short form: Slovensko 
				Slovenia
				conventional long form: Republic of Slovenia 
				conventional short form: Slovenia 
				local long form: Republika Slovenija 
				local short form: Slovenija 
				former: People's Republic of Slovenia, Socialist Republic of Slovenia 
				Solomon Islands
				conventional long form: none 
				conventional short form: Solomon Islands 
				local long form: none 
				local short form: Solomon Islands 
				former: British Solomon Islands 
				Somalia
				conventional long form: none 
				conventional short form: Somalia 
				local long form: Jamhuuriyada Demuqraadiga Soomaaliyeed 
				local short form: Soomaaliya 
				former: Somali Republic, Somali Democratic Republic 
				South Africa
				conventional long form: Republic of South Africa 
				conventional short form: South Africa 
				former: Union of South Africa 
				abbreviation: RSA 
				South Georgia and the South Sandwich Islands
				conventional long form: South Georgia and the South Sandwich Islands 
				conventional short form: none 
				abbreviation: SGSSI 
				Spain
				conventional long form: Kingdom of Spain 
				conventional short form: Spain 
				local long form: Reino de Espana 
				local short form: Espana 
				Spratly Islands
				conventional long form: none 
				conventional short form: Spratly Islands 
				Sri Lanka
				conventional long form: Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka 
				conventional short form: Sri Lanka 
				local long form: Shri Lamka Prajatantrika Samajaya di Janarajaya/Ilankai Jananayaka Choshalichak Kutiyarachu 
				local short form: Shri Lamka/Ilankai 
				former: Serendib, Ceylon 
				Sudan
				conventional long form: Republic of the Sudan 
				conventional short form: Sudan 
				local long form: Jumhuriyat as-Sudan 
				local short form: As-Sudan 
				former: Anglo-Egyptian Sudan 
				Suriname
				conventional long form: Republic of Suriname 
				conventional short form: Suriname 
				local long form: Republiek Suriname 
				local short form: Suriname 
				former: Netherlands Guiana, Dutch Guiana 
				Svalbard
				conventional long form: none 
				conventional short form: Svalbard (sometimes referred to as Spitzbergen) 
				Swaziland
				conventional long form: Kingdom of Swaziland 
				conventional short form: Swaziland 
				local long form: Umbuso weSwatini 
				local short form: eSwatini 
				Sweden
				conventional long form: Kingdom of Sweden 
				conventional short form: Sweden 
				local long form: Konungariket Sverige 
				local short form: Sverige 
				Switzerland
				conventional long form: Swiss Confederation 
				conventional short form: Switzerland 
				local long form: Schweizerische Eidgenossenschaft (German); Confederation Suisse (French); Confederazione Svizzera (Italian); Confederaziun Svizra (Romansh) 
				local short form: Schweiz (German); Suisse (French); Svizzera (Italian); Svizra (Romansh) 
				Syria
				conventional long form: Syrian Arab Republic 
				conventional short form: Syria 
				local long form: Al Jumhuriyah al Arabiyah as Suriyah 
				local short form: Suriyah 
				former: United Arab Republic (with Egypt) 
				Taiwan
				conventional long form: none 
				conventional short form: Taiwan 
				local long form: none 
				local short form: T'ai-wan 
				former: Formosa 
				Tajikistan
				conventional long form: Republic of Tajikistan 
				conventional short form: Tajikistan 
				local long form: Jumhurii Tojikiston 
				local short form: Tojikiston 
				former: Tajik Soviet Socialist Republic 
				Tanzania
				conventional long form: United Republic of Tanzania 
				conventional short form: Tanzania 
				local long form: Jamhuri ya Muungano wa Tanzania 
				local short form: Tanzania 
				former: United Republic of Tanganyika and Zanzibar 
				Thailand
				conventional long form: Kingdom of Thailand 
				conventional short form: Thailand 
				local long form: Ratcha Anachak Thai 
				local short form: Prathet Thai 
				former: Siam 
				Timor-Leste
				conventional long form: Democratic Republic of Timor-Leste 
				conventional short form: Timor-Leste 
				local long form: Republika Demokratika Timor Lorosa'e [Tetum]; Republica Democratica de Timor-Leste [Portuguese] 
				local short form: Timor Lorosa'e [Tetum]; Timor-Leste [Portuguese] 
				former: East Timor, Portuguese Timor 
				Togo
				conventional long form: Togolese Republic 
				conventional short form: Togo 
				local long form: Republique togolaise 
				local short form: none 
				former: French Togoland 
				Tokelau
				conventional long form: none 
				conventional short form: Tokelau 
				Tonga
				conventional long form: Kingdom of Tonga 
				conventional short form: Tonga 
				local long form: Pule'anga Tonga 
				local short form: Tonga 
				former: Friendly Islands 
				Trinidad and Tobago
				conventional long form: Republic of Trinidad and Tobago 
				conventional short form: Trinidad and Tobago 
				Tunisia
				conventional long form: Tunisian Republic 
				conventional short form: Tunisia 
				local long form: Al Jumhuriyah at Tunisiyah 
				local short form: Tunis 
				Turkey
				conventional long form: Republic of Turkey 
				conventional short form: Turkey 
				local long form: Turkiye Cumhuriyeti 
				local short form: Turkiye 
				Turkmenistan
				conventional long form: none 
				conventional short form: Turkmenistan 
				local long form: none 
				local short form: Turkmenistan 
				former: Turkmen Soviet Socialist Republic 
				Turks and Caicos Islands
				conventional long form: none 
				conventional short form: Turks and Caicos Islands 
				abbreviation: TCI 
				Tuvalu
				conventional long form: none 
				conventional short form: Tuvalu 
				local long form: none 
				local short form: Tuvalu 
				former: Ellice Islands 
				note: "Tuvalu" means "group of eight," referring to the country's eight traditionally inhabited islands 
				Uganda
				conventional long form: Republic of Uganda 
				conventional short form: Uganda 
				Ukraine
				conventional long form: none 
				conventional short form: Ukraine 
				local long form: none 
				local short form: Ukrayina 
				former: Ukrainian National Republic, Ukrainian State, Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic 
				United Arab Emirates
				conventional long form: United Arab Emirates 
				conventional short form: none 
				local long form: Al Imarat al Arabiyah al Muttahidah 
				local short form: none 
				former: Trucial Oman, Trucial States 
				abbreviation: UAE 
				United Kingdom
				conventional long form: United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland; note - Great Britain includes England, Scotland, and Wales 
				conventional short form: United Kingdom 
				abbreviation: UK 
				United States
				conventional long form: United States of America 
				conventional short form: United States 
				abbreviation: US or USA 
				United States Pacific Island Wildlife Refuges
				conventional long form: none 
				conventional short form: Baker Island; Howland Island; Jarvis Island; Johnston Atoll; Kingman Reef; Midway Islands; Palmyra Atoll 
				Uruguay
				conventional long form: Oriental Republic of Uruguay 
				conventional short form: Uruguay 
				local long form: Republica Oriental del Uruguay 
				local short form: Uruguay 
				former: Banda Oriental, Cisplatine Province 
				Uzbekistan
				conventional long form: Republic of Uzbekistan 
				conventional short form: Uzbekistan 
				local long form: Ozbekiston Respublikasi 
				local short form: Ozbekiston 
				former: Uzbek Soviet Socialist Republic 
				Vanuatu
				conventional long form: Republic of Vanuatu 
				conventional short form: Vanuatu 
				local long form: Ripablik blong Vanuatu 
				local short form: Vanuatu 
				former: New Hebrides 
				Venezuela
				conventional long form: Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela 
				conventional short form: Venezuela 
				local long form: Republica Bolivariana de Venezuela 
				local short form: Venezuela 
				Vietnam
				conventional long form: Socialist Republic of Vietnam 
				conventional short form: Vietnam 
				local long form: Cong Hoa Xa Hoi Chu Nghia Viet Nam 
				local short form: Viet Nam 
				abbreviation: SRV 
				Virgin Islands
				conventional long form: United States Virgin Islands 
				conventional short form: Virgin Islands 
				former: Danish West Indies 
				abbreviation: USVI 
				Wake Island
				conventional long form: none 
				conventional short form: Wake Island 
				Wallis and Futuna
				conventional long form: Territory of the Wallis and Futuna Islands 
				conventional short form: Wallis and Futuna 
				local long form: Territoire des Iles Wallis et Futuna 
				local short form: Wallis et Futuna 
				West Bank
				conventional long form: none 
				conventional short form: West Bank 
				Western Sahara
				conventional long form: none 
				conventional short form: Western Sahara 
				former: Spanish Sahara 
				Yemen
				conventional long form: Republic of Yemen 
				conventional short form: Yemen 
				local long form: Al Jumhuriyah al Yamaniyah 
				local short form: Al Yaman 
				former: Yemen Arab Republic [Yemen (Sanaa) or North Yemen] and People's Democratic Republic of Yemen [Yemen (Aden) or South Yemen] 
				Zambia
				conventional long form: Republic of Zambia 
				conventional short form: Zambia 
				former: Northern Rhodesia 
				Zimbabwe
				conventional long form: Republic of Zimbabwe 
				conventional short form: Zimbabwe 
				former: Southern Rhodesia, Rhodesia  		
				This page was last updated on 19 March 2009
&nbsp; 
CIA - The World Factbook -- Field Listing - Railways
&nbsp; 
				    &nbsp; 
                    Field Listing - Railways
         Home 
          &nbsp;Reference Maps 
          &nbsp;Appendixes 
          		&nbsp;Rank Order List
			Country
			Railways (km) 
				Albania
				total: 447 km 
				standard gauge: 447 km 1.435-m gauge (2006) 
				Algeria
				total: 3,973 km 
				standard gauge: 2,888 km 1.435-m gauge (283 km electrified) 
				narrow gauge: 1,085 km 1.055-m gauge (2006) 
				Angola
				total: 2,761 km 
				narrow gauge: 2,638 km 1.067-m gauge; 123 km 0.600-m gauge (2006) 
				Argentina
				total: 31,902 km 
				broad gauge: 20,858 km 1.676-m gauge (141 km electrified) 
				standard gauge: 2,885 km 1.435-m gauge (26 km electrified) 
				narrow gauge: 7,922 km 1.000-m gauge; 237 km 0.750-m gauge (2006) 
				Armenia
				total: 839 km 
				broad gauge: 839 km 1.520-m gauge (828 km electrified) 
				note: some lines are out of service (2006) 
				Australia
				total: 38,550 km 
				broad gauge: 3,727 km 1.600-m gauge 
				standard gauge: 20,519 km 1.435-m gauge (1,877 km electrified) 
				narrow gauge: 14,074 km 1.067-m gauge (2,453 km electrified) 
				dual gauge: 230 km dual gauge (2006) 
				Austria
				total: 6,383 km 
				standard gauge: 5,924 km 1.435-m gauge (3,772 km electrified) 
				narrow gauge: 371 km 1.000-m gauge; 88 km 0.760-m gauge (25 km electrified) (2006) 
				Azerbaijan
				total: 2,122 km 
				broad gauge: 2,122 km 1.520-m gauge (1,278 km electrified) (2006) 
				Bangladesh
				total: 2,768 km 
				broad gauge: 946 km 1.676-m gauge 
				narrow gauge: 1,822 km 1.000-m gauge (2006) 
				Belarus
				total: 5,512 km 
				broad gauge: 5,497 km 1.520-m gauge (874 km electrified) 
				standard gauge: 15 km 1.435 m (2006) 
				Belgium
				total: 3,536 km 
				standard gauge: 3,536 km 1.435-m gauge (2,950 km electrified) (2006) 
				Benin
				total: 758 km 
				narrow gauge: 758 km 1.000-m gauge (2006) 
				Bolivia
				total: 3,504 km 
				narrow gauge: 3,504 km 1.000-m gauge (2006) 
				Bosnia and Herzegovina
				total: 608 km 
				standard gauge: 608 km 1.435-m gauge (2006) 
				Botswana
				total: 888 km 
				narrow gauge: 888 km 1.067-m gauge (2006) 
				Brazil
				total: 29,295 km 
				broad gauge: 4,932 km 1.600-m gauge (939 km electrified) 
				standard gauge: 194 km 1.440-m gauge 
				narrow gauge: 23,773 km 1.000-m gauge (581 km electrified) 
				dual gauge: 396 km 1.000 m and 1.600-m gauges (three rails) (78 km electrified) (2006) 
				Bulgaria
				total: 4,294 km 
				standard gauge: 4,049 km 1.435-m gauge (2,710 km electrified) 
				narrow gauge: 245 km 0.760-m gauge (2006) 
				Burkina Faso
				total: 622 km 
				narrow gauge: 622 km 1.000-m gauge 
				note: another 660 km of this railway extends into Cote D'Ivoire (2006) 
				Burma
				total: 3,955 km 
				narrow gauge: 3,955 km 1.000-m gauge (2006) 
				Cambodia
				total: 602 km 
				narrow gauge: 602 km 1.000-m gauge (2006) 
				Cameroon
				total: 987 km 
				narrow gauge: 987 km 1.000-m gauge (2006) 
				Canada
				total: 48,068 km 
				standard gauge: 48,068 km 1.435-m gauge (2006) 
				Chile
				total: 6,585 km 
				broad gauge: 2,831 km 1.676-m gauge (1,317 km electrified) 
				narrow gauge: 3,754 km 1.000-m gauge (2006) 
				China
				total: 75,438 km 
				standard gauge: 75,438 km 1.435-m gauge (20,151 km electrified) (2005) 
				Colombia
				total: 3,304 km 
				standard gauge: 150 km 1.435-m gauge 
				narrow gauge: 3,154 km 0.914-m gauge (2006) 
				Congo, Democratic Republic of the
				total: 5,138 km 
				narrow gauge: 3,987 km 1.067-m gauge (858 km electrified); 125 km 1.000-m gauge; 1,026 km 0.600-m gauge (2006) 
				Congo, Republic of the
				total: 894 km 
				narrow gauge: 894 km 1.067-m gauge (2006) 
				Costa Rica
				total: 278 km 
				narrow gauge: 278 km 1.067-m gauge 
				note: none of the railway network is in use (2007) 
				Cote d'Ivoire
				total: 660 km 
				narrow gauge: 660 km 1.000 meter gauge 
				note: an additional 622 km of this railroad extends into Burkina Faso (2006) 
				Croatia
				total: 2,726 km 
				standard gauge: 2,726 km 1.435-m gauge (1,199 km electrified) (2006) 
				Cuba
				total: 4,226 km 
				standard gauge: 4,226 km 1.435-m gauge (140 km electrified) 
				note: an additional 7,742 km of track is used by sugar plantations; about 65% of this track is standard gauge; the rest is narrow gauge (2006) 
				Czech Republic
				total: 9,597 km 
				standard gauge: 9,597 km 1.435-m gauge (3,041 km electrified) (2006) 
				Denmark
				total: 2,644 km 
				standard gauge: 2,644 km 1.435-m gauge (636 km electrified) (2007) 
				Djibouti
				total: 100 km (Djibouti segment of the Addis Ababa-Djibouti railway) 
				narrow gauge: 100 km 1.000-m gauge 
				note: railway under joint control of Djibouti and Ethiopia but remains largely inoperable (2006) 
				Dominican Republic
				total: 517 km 
				standard gauge: 375 km 1.435-m gauge 
				narrow gauge: 142 km 0.762-m gauge 
				note: additional 1,226 km operated by sugar companies in 1.076 m, 0.889 m, and 0.762-m gauges (2006) 
				Ecuador
				total: 966 km 
				narrow gauge: 966 km 1.067-m gauge (2006) 
				Egypt
				total: 5,063 km 
				standard gauge: 5,063 km 1.435-m gauge (62 km electrified) (2006) 
				El Salvador
				total: 562 km 
				narrow gauge: 562 km 0.914-m gauge 
				note: railways not in operation since 2005 because of disuse and high costs that led to a lack of maintenance (2007) 
				Eritrea
				total: 306 km 
				narrow gauge: 306 km 0.950-m gauge (2006) 
				Estonia
				total: 816 km 
				broad gauge: 816 km 1.520 m/1.524-m gauge (131 km electrified) (2007) 
				Ethiopia
				total: 699 km (Ethiopian segment of the Addis Ababa-Djibouti railroad) 
				narrow gauge: 699 km 1.000-m gauge 
				note: railway under joint control of Djibouti and Ethiopia but remains largely inoperable (2006) 
				European Union
				total: 236,436 km 
				broad gauge: 28,250 km 
				standard gauge: 200,401 km 
				narrow gauge: 7,771 km 
				other: 23 km (2007) 
				Fiji
				total: 597 km 
				narrow gauge: 597 km 0.600-m gauge 
				note: belongs to the government-owned Fiji Sugar Corporation; used to haul sugarcane during harvest season (May to December) (2006) 
				Finland
				total: 5,741 km 
				broad gauge: 5,741 km 1.524-m gauge (2,619 km electrified) (2006) 
				France
				total: 29,370 km 
				standard gauge: 29,203 km 1.435-m gauge (14,778 km electrified) 
				narrow gauge: 167 km 1.000-m gauge (2006) 
				Gabon
				total: 814 km 
				standard gauge: 814 km 1.435-m gauge (2006) 
				Georgia
				total: 1,612 km 
				broad gauge: 1,575 km 1.520-m gauge (1,575 electrified) 
				narrow gauge: 37 km 0.912-m gauge (37 electrified) (2006) 
				Germany
				total: 48,215 km 
				standard gauge: 47,962 km 1.435-m gauge (20,278 km electrified) 
				narrow gauge: 229 km 1.000-m gauge (16 km electrified); 24 km 0.750-m gauge (2006) 
				Ghana
				total: 953 km 
				narrow gauge: 953 km 1.067-m gauge (2006) 
				Greece
				total: 2,571 km 
				standard gauge: 1,565 km 1.435-m gauge (764 km electrified) 
				narrow gauge: 961 km 1.000-m gauge; 22 km 0.750-m gauge 
				dual gauge: 23 km combined 1.435 m and 1.000-m gauges (three rail system) (2006) 
				Guatemala
				total: 886 km 
				narrow gauge: 886 km 0.914-m gauge (2006) 
				Guinea
				total: 837 km 
				standard gauge: 175 km 1.435-m gauge 
				narrow gauge: 662 km 1.000-m gauge (2006) 
				Honduras
				total: 699 km 
				narrow gauge: 279 km 1.067-m gauge; 420 km 0.914-m gauge (2006) 
				Hungary
				total: 8,057 km 
				broad gauge: 36 km 1.524-m gauge 
				standard gauge: 7,802 km 1.435-m gauge (2,628 km electrified) 
				narrow gauge: 219 km 0.760-m gauge (2006) 
				India
				total: 63,221 km 
				broad gauge: 46,807 km 1.676-m gauge (17,343 km electrified) 
				narrow gauge: 13,290 km 1.000-m gauge (165 km electrified); 3,124 km 0.762-m gauge and 0.610-m gauge (2006) 
				Indonesia
				total: 6,458 km 
				narrow gauge: 5,961 km 1.067-m gauge (125 km electrified); 497 km 0.750-m gauge (2006) 
				Iran
				total: 8,367 km 
				broad gauge: 94 km 1.676-m gauge 
				standard gauge: 8,273 km 1.435-m gauge (146 km electrified) (2006) 
				Iraq
				total: 2,272 km 
				standard gauge: 2,272 km 1.435-m gauge (2006) 
				Ireland
				total: 3,237 km 
				broad gauge: 1,872 km 1.600-m gauge (37 km electrified) 
				narrow gauge: 1,365 km 0.914-m gauge (operated by the Irish Peat Board to transport peat to power stations and briquetting plants) (2006) 
				Isle of Man
				total: 65 km 
				standard gauge: 7 km 1.067-m gauge (7 km electrified) 
				narrow gauge: 58 km 0.914-m gauge (29 km electrified) 
				note: primarily summer tourist attractions (2006) 
				Israel
				total: 853 km 
				standard gauge: 853 km 1.435-m gauge (2006) 
				Italy
				total: 19,460 km 
				standard gauge: 18,038 km 1.435-m gauge (11,354 km electrified) 
				narrow gauge: 123 km 1.000-m gauge (123 km electrified); 1,299 km 0.950-m gauge (161 km electrified) (2006) 
				Japan
				total: 23,474 km 
				standard gauge: 3,204 km 1.435-m gauge (3,204 km electrified) 
				narrow gauge: 77 km 1.372-m gauge (77 km electrified); 20,182 km 1.067-m gauge (13,334 km electrified); 11 km 0.762-m gauge (11 km electrified) (2006) 
				Jordan
				total: 505 km 
				narrow gauge: 505 km 1.050-m gauge (2006) 
				Kazakhstan
				total: 13,700 km 
				broad gauge: 13,700 km 1.520-m gauge (3,700 km electrified) (2006) 
				Kenya
				total: 2,778 km 
				narrow gauge: 2,778 km 1.000-m gauge (2006) 
				Korea, North
				total: 5,235 km 
				standard gauge: 5,235 km 1.435-m gauge (3,500 km electrified) (2006) 
				Korea, South
				total: 3,381 km 
				standard gauge: 3,381 km 1.435-m gauge (1,843 km electrified) (2008) 
				Kosovo
				total: 430 km (2005) 
				Kyrgyzstan
				total: 470 km 
				broad gauge: 470 km 1.520-m gauge (2006) 
				Latvia
				total: 2,303 km 
				broad gauge: 2,270 km 1.520-m gauge (257 km electrified) 
				narrow gauge: 33 km 0.750-m gauge (2006) 
				Lebanon
				total: 401 km 
				standard gauge: 319 km 1.435 m 
				narrow gauge: 82 km 1.050 m 
				note: rail system became unusable because of damage done during fighting in the 1980s and in 2006 (2006) 
				Liberia
				total: 490 km 
				standard gauge: 345 km 1.435-m gauge 
				narrow gauge: 145 km 1.067-m gauge 
				note: sections of railway are inoperable because of damage suffered during the civil war (2008) 
				Libya
			0 km 
				note: Libya has announced plans to build seven lines totaling 2,757 km of 1.435-m gauge track (2006) 
				Liechtenstein
			9 km 1.435-m gauge (electrified) 
				note: belongs to the Austrian Railway System connecting Austria and Switzerland (2006) 
				Lithuania
				total: 1,771 km 
				broad gauge: 1,749 km 1.524-m gauge (122 km electrified) 
				standard gauge: 22 km 1.435-m gauge (2006) 
				Luxembourg
				total: 275 km 
				standard gauge: 275 km 1.435-m gauge (243 km electrified) (2006) 
				Macedonia
				total: 699 km 
				standard gauge: 699 km 1.435-m gauge (223 km electrified) (2006) 
				Madagascar
				total: 854 km 
				narrow gauge: 854 km 1.000-m gauge (2006) 
				Malawi
				total: 797 km 
				narrow gauge: 797 km 1.067-m gauge (2006) 
				Malaysia
				total: 1,890 km 
				standard gauge: 57 km 1.435-m gauge (57 km electrified) 
				narrow gauge: 1,833 km 1.000-m gauge (150 km electrified) (2006) 
				Mali
				total: 729 km 
				narrow gauge: 729 km 1.000-m gauge (2006) 
				Mauritania
			717 km 
				standard gauge: 717 km 1.435-m gauge (2006) 
				Mexico
				total: 17,665 km 
				standard gauge: 17,665 km 1.435-m gauge (2006) 
				Moldova
				total: 1,138 km 
				broad gauge: 1,124 km 1.520-m gauge 
				standard gauge: 14 km 1.435-m gauge (2006) 
				Mongolia
				total: 1,810 km 
				broad gauge: 1,810 km 1.520-m gauge (2008) 
				Montenegro
				total: 250 km 
				standard gauge: 250 km 1.435-m gauge (electrified 169 km) (2006) 
				Morocco
				total: 1,907 km 
				standard gauge: 1,907 km 1.435-m gauge (1,003 km electrified) (2006) 
				Mozambique
				total: 3,123 km 
				narrow gauge: 2,983 km 1.067-m gauge; 140 km 0.762-m gauge (2006) 
				Namibia
				total: 2,382 km 
				narrow gauge: 2,382 km 1.067-m gauge (2006) 
				Nepal
				total: 59 km 
				narrow gauge: 59 km 0.762-m gauge (2006) 
				Netherlands
				total: 2,801 km 
				standard gauge: 2,801 km 1.435-m gauge (2,064 km electrified) (2007) 
				New Zealand
				total: 4,128 km 
				narrow gauge: 4,128 km 1.067-m gauge (506 km electrified) (2006) 
				Nicaragua
				total: 6 km 
				narrow gauge: 6 km 1.067-m gauge (2006) 
				Nigeria
				total: 3,505 km 
				narrow gauge: 3,505 km 1.067-m gauge (2006) 
				Norway
				total: 4,114 km 
				standard gauge: 4,114 km 1.435-m gauge (2,552 km electrified) (2008) 
				Pakistan
				total: 8,163 km 
				broad gauge: 7,718 km 1.676-m gauge (293 km electrified) 
				narrow gauge: 445 km 1.000-m gauge (2006) 
				Panama
				total: 355 km 
				standard gauge: 77 km 1.435-m gauge 
				narrow gauge: 278 km 0.914-m gauge (2006) 
				Paraguay
				total: 36 km 
				standard gauge: 36 km 1.435-m gauge (2006) 
				Peru
				total: 1,989 km 
				standard gauge: 1,726 km 1.435-m gauge 
				narrow gauge: 263 km 0.914-m gauge (2006) 
				Philippines
				total: 897 km 
				narrow gauge: 897 km 1.067-m gauge (492 km are in operation) (2006) 
				Poland
				total: 23,072 km 
				broad gauge: 629 km 1.524-m gauge 
				standard gauge: 22,443 km 1.435-m gauge (20,555 km operational; 11,910 km electrified) (2006) 
				Portugal
				total: 2,786 km 
				broad gauge: 2,603 km 1.668-m gauge (1,351 km electrified) 
				narrow gauge: 183 km 1.000-m gauge (2006) 
				Puerto Rico
				total: 96 km 
				narrow gauge: 96 km 1.000-m gauge (2006) 
				Romania
				total: 10,789 km 
				broad gauge: 57 km 1.524-m gauge 
				standard gauge: 10,731 km 1.435-m gauge (3,965 km electrified) 
				narrow gauge: 1 km 0.760-m gauge (2007) 
				Russia
				total: 87,157 km 
				broad gauge: 86,200 km 1.520-m gauge (40,300 km electrified) 
				narrow gauge: 957 km 1.067-m gauge (on Sakhalin Island) 
				note: an additional 30,000 km of non-common carrier lines serve industries (2006) 
				Saint Kitts and Nevis
				total: 50 km 
				narrow gauge: 50 km 0.762-m gauge on Saint Kitts for tourists (2006) 
				Saudi Arabia
				total: 1,392 km 
				standard gauge: 1,392 km 1.435-m gauge (with branch lines and sidings) (2006) 
				Senegal
				total: 906 km 
				narrow gauge: 906 km 1.000 meter gauge (2006) 
				Serbia
				total: 3,379 km 
				standard gauge: 3,379 km 1.435-m gauge (electrified 1,254 km) (2006) 
				Slovakia
				total: 3,662 km 
				broad gauge: 100 km 1.520-m gauge 
				standard gauge: 3,512 km 1.435-m gauge (1,588 km electrified) 
				narrow gauge: 50 km (1.000-m or 0.750-m gauge) (2006) 
				Slovenia
				total: 1,229 km 
				standard gauge: 1,229 km 1.435-m gauge (504 km electrified) (2006) 
				South Africa
				total: 20,872 km 
				narrow gauge: 20,436 km 1.065-m gauge (8,931 km electrified); 436 km 0.610-m gauge (2006) 
				Spain
				total: 14,974 km 
				broad gauge: 11,919 km 1.668-m gauge (6,950 km electrified) 
				standard gauge: 1,099 km 1.435-m gauge (1,054 km electrified) 
				narrow gauge: 1,928 km 1.000-m gauge (815 km electrified); 28 km 0.914-m gauge (28 km electrified) (2006) 
				Sri Lanka
				total: 1,449 km 
				broad gauge: 1,449 km 1.676-m gauge (2006) 
				Sudan
				total: 5,978 km 
				narrow gauge: 4,578 km 1.067-m gauge; 1,400 km 0.600-m gauge for cotton plantations (2006) 
				Swaziland
				total: 301 km 
				narrow gauge: 301 km 1.067-m gauge (2006) 
				Sweden
				total: 11,528 km 
				standard gauge: 11,528 km 1.435-m gauge (7,527 km electrified) (2006) 
				Switzerland
				total: 4,839 km 
				standard gauge: 3,561 km 1.435-m gauge (3,195 km electrified) 
				narrow gauge: 1,268 km 1.000-m gauge (1,274 km electrified); 10 km 0.800-m gauge (10 km electrified) (2006) 
				Syria
				total: 2,711 km 
				standard gauge: 2,460 km 1.435-m gauge 
				narrow gauge: 251 km 1.050-m gauge (2006) 
				Taiwan
				total: 1,588 km 
				standard gauge: 345 km 1.435-m gauge 
				narrow gauge: 1,093 km 1.067-m gauge 
				note: 150 km .762-m gauge (belonging primarily to Taiwan Sugar Corporation and Taiwan Forestry Bureau; some to other entities) (2007) 
				Tajikistan
				total: 482 km 
				broad gauge: 482 km 1.520-m gauge (2006) 
				Tanzania
				total: 3,690 km 
				narrow gauge: 969 km 1.067-m gauge; 2,721 km 1.000-m gauge (2006) 
				Thailand
				total: 4,071 km 
				narrow gauge: 4,071 km 1.000-m gauge (2006) 
				Togo
				total: 568 km 
				narrow gauge: 568 km 1.000-m gauge (2006) 
				Tunisia
				total: 2,153 km 
				standard gauge: 471 km 1.435-m gauge 
				narrow gauge: 1,674 km 1.000-m gauge (65 km electrified) 
				dual gauge: 8 km 1.435 m and 1.000-m gauges (three rails) (2006) 
				Turkey
				total: 8,697 km 
				standard gauge: 8,697 km 1.435-m gauge (1,920 km electrified) (2006) 
				Turkmenistan
				total: 2,440 km 
				broad gauge: 2,440 km 1.520-m gauge (2006) 
				Uganda
				total: 1,244 km 
				narrow gauge: 1,244 km 1.000-m gauge (2006) 
				Ukraine
				total: 21,852 km 
				broad gauge: 21,852 km 1.524-m gauge (9,648 km electrified) (2007) 
				United Kingdom
				total: 16,567 km 
				broad gauge: 303 km 1.600-m gauge (in Northern Ireland) 
				standard gauge: 16,264 km 1.435-m gauge (5,361 km electrified) (2006) 
				United States
				total: 226,612 km 
				standard gauge: 226,612 km 1.435-m gauge (2005) 
				Uruguay
				total: 2,073 km 
				standard gauge: 2,073 km 1.435-m gauge 
				note: 461 km have been taken out of service and 460 km are in partial use (2006) 
				Uzbekistan
				total: 3,950 km 
				broad gauge: 3,950 km 1.520-m gauge (620 km electrified) (2006) 
				Venezuela
				total: 682 km 
				standard gauge: 682 km 1.435-m gauge (2006) 
				Vietnam
				total: 2,600 km 
				standard gauge: 178 km 1.435-m gauge 
				narrow gauge: 2,169 km 1.000-m gauge 
				dual gauge: 253 km three-rail track combining 1.435 m and 1.000-m gauges (2006) 
				World
				total: 1,370,782 km (2006) 
				Zambia
				total: 2,157 km 
				narrow gauge: 2,157 km 1.067-m gauge 
				note: includes 891 km of the Tanzania-Zambia Railway Authority (TAZARA) (2006) 
				Zimbabwe
				total: 3,077 km 
				narrow gauge: 3,077 km 1.067-m gauge (313 km electrified) (2006)  		
				This page was last updated on 19 March 2009
&nbsp; 
CIA - The World Factbook -- Field Listing - Natural gas - consumption
&nbsp; 
				    &nbsp; 
                    Field Listing - Natural gas - consumption
         Home 
          &nbsp;Reference Maps 
          &nbsp;Appendixes 
          		&nbsp;Rank Order List
			Country
			Natural gas - consumption (cu m) 
				Afghanistan
			20 million cu m (2006 est.) 
				Albania
			30 million cu m (2006 est.) 
				Algeria
			26.3 billion cu m (2007 est.) 
				American Samoa
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Angola
			680 million cu m (2006 est.) 
				Antigua and Barbuda
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Argentina
			44.1 billion cu m (2007 est.) 
				Armenia
			2.05 billion cu m (2007 est.) 
				Aruba
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Australia
			29.4 billion cu m (2007 est.) 
				Austria
			8.436 billion cu m (2007 est.) 
				Azerbaijan
			9.77 billion cu m (2007 est.) 
				Bahamas, The
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Bahrain
			11.33 billion cu m (2006 est.) 
				Bangladesh
			15.7 billion cu m (2007 est.) 
				Barbados
			29.17 million cu m (2006 est.) 
				Belarus
			21.76 billion cu m (2007 est.) 
				Belgium
			17.39 billion cu m (2007 est.) 
				Belize
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Benin
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Bermuda
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Bhutan
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Bolivia
			3 billion cu m (2007 est.) 
				Bosnia and Herzegovina
			400 million cu m (2006 est.) 
				Botswana
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Brazil
			19.8 billion cu m (2007 est.) 
				British Virgin Islands
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Brunei
			3.99 billion cu m (2006 est.) 
				Bulgaria
			3.5 billion cu m (2007 est.) 
				Burkina Faso
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Burma
			3.62 billion cu m (2006 est.) 
				Burundi
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Cambodia
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Cameroon
			20 million cu m (2006 est.) 
				Canada
			92.9 billion cu m (2007 est.) 
				Cape Verde
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Cayman Islands
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Central African Republic
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Chad
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Chile
			4.2 billion cu m (2007 est.) 
				China
			70.51 billion cu m (2007 est.) 
				Colombia
			7.22 billion cu m (2006 est.) 
				Comoros
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Congo, Democratic Republic of the
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Congo, Republic of the
			180 million cu m (2006 est.) 
				Cook Islands
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Costa Rica
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Cote d'Ivoire
			1.3 billion cu m (2006 est.) 
				Croatia
			3.3 billion cu m (2007) 
				Cuba
			1.218 billion cu m (2007) 
				Cyprus
			NA 
				Czech Republic
			8.622 billion cu m (2007 est.) 
				Denmark
			4.555 billion cu m (2007 est.) 
				Djibouti
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Dominica
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Dominican Republic
			250 million cu m (2006 est.) 
				Ecuador
			280 million cu m (2006 est.) 
				Egypt
			31.8 billion cu m (2007 est.) 
				El Salvador
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Equatorial Guinea
			1.3 billion cu m (2006 est.) 
				Eritrea
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Estonia
			1.003 billion cu m (2007) 
				Ethiopia
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				European Union
			497.3 billion cu m (2007 est.) 
				Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas)
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Faroe Islands
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Fiji
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Finland
			2.268 billion cu m (2007 est.) 
				France
			42.69 billion cu m (2007 est.) 
				French Polynesia
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Gabon
			100 million cu m (2006 est.) 
				Gambia, The
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Georgia
			1.49 billion cu m (2007 est.) 
				Germany
			97.44 billion cu m (2007 est.) 
				Ghana
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Gibraltar
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Greece
			4.069 billion cu m (2007 est.) 
				Greenland
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Grenada
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Guam
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Guatemala
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Guinea
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Guinea-Bissau
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Guyana
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Haiti
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Honduras
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Hong Kong
			3.08 billion cu m (2008 est.) 
				Hungary
			13.36 billion cu m (2007 est.) 
				Iceland
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				India
			41.7 billion cu m (2007 est.) 
				Indonesia
			23.4 billion cu m (2007 est.) 
				Iran
			111.8 billion cu m (2007 est.) 
				Iraq
			9.454 billion cu m 
				note: 1.48 billion cu m were flared (2008 est.) 
				Ireland
			4.984 billion cu m (2007 est.) 
				Israel
			2.27 billion cu m (2006 est.) 
				Italy
			84.89 billion cu m (2007 est.) 
				Jamaica
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Japan
			100.3 billion cu m (2007 est.) 
				Jordan
			2.25 billion cu m (2006 est.) 
				Kazakhstan
			30.58 billion cu m (2007 est.) 
				Kenya
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Kiribati
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Korea, North
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Korea, South
			37 billion cu m (2007 est.) 
				Kosovo
			0 cu m (2007) 
				Kuwait
			12.5 billion cu m (2006 est.) 
				Kyrgyzstan
			768 million cu m (2007 est.) 
				Laos
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Latvia
			2.04 billion cu m (2007 est.) 
				Lebanon
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Lesotho
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Liberia
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Libya
			6.39 billion cu m (2006 est.) 
				Lithuania
			3.44 billion cu m (2007 est.) 
				Luxembourg
			1.329 billion cu m (2007 est.) 
				Macau
			81.6 million cu m (2008 est.) 
				Macedonia
			100 million cu m (2006 est.) 
				Madagascar
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Malawi
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Malaysia
			32.9 billion cu m (2007 est.) 
				Maldives
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Mali
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Malta
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Mauritania
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Mauritius
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Mexico
			68.29 billion cu m (2007 est.) 
				Moldova
			2.44 billion cu m (2007 est.) 
				Mongolia
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Montenegro
			NA cu m 
				Montserrat
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Morocco
			60 million cu m (2006 est.) 
				Mozambique
			1.45 billion cu m (2006 est.) 
				Namibia
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Nauru
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Nepal
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Netherlands
			46.42 billion cu m (2007 est.) 
				Netherlands Antilles
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				New Caledonia
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				New Zealand
			4.572 billion cu m (2007 est.) 
				Nicaragua
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Niger
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Nigeria
			12.9 billion cu m (2007 est.) 
				Niue
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Norway
			6.5 billion cu m (2007 est.) 
				Oman
			11 billion cu m (2007 est.) 
				Pakistan
			30.8 billion cu m (2007 est.) 
				Panama
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Papua New Guinea
			140 million cu m (2006 est.) 
				Paraguay
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Peru
			3.4 billion cu m (2008 est.) 
				Philippines
			2.2 billion cu m (2006 est.) 
				Poland
			16.38 billion cu m (2007 est.) 
				Portugal
			4.112 billion cu m (2007 est.) 
				Puerto Rico
			736.2 million cu m (2007 est.) 
				Qatar
			20.5 billion cu m (2007 est.) 
				Romania
			17.09 billion cu m (2007) 
				Russia
			481 billion cu m (2007 est.) 
				Rwanda
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Saint Helena
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Saint Kitts and Nevis
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Saint Lucia
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Saint Pierre and Miquelon
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Saint Vincent and the Grenadines
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Samoa
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Sao Tome and Principe
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Saudi Arabia
			75.9 billion cu m (2007 est.) 
				Senegal
			50 million cu m (2006 est.) 
				Serbia
			2.55 billion cu m (2005 est.) 
				Seychelles
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Sierra Leone
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Singapore
			6.6 billion cu m (2008 est.) 
				Slovakia
			6.216 billion cu m (2007 est.) 
				Slovenia
			1.105 billion cu m (2006 est.) 
				Solomon Islands
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Somalia
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				South Africa
			3.1 billion cu m (2006 est.) 
				Spain
			34.43 billion cu m (2007 est.) 
				Sri Lanka
			0 cu m (2008 est.) 
				Sudan
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Suriname
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Swaziland
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Sweden
			1.006 billion cu m (2007 est.) 
				Switzerland
			3.232 billion cu m (2007 est.) 
				Syria
			4.4 billion cu m (2008 est.) 
				Taiwan
			13.6 billion cu m (2007) 
				Tajikistan
			842 million cu m (2007 est.) 
				Tanzania
			146 million cu m (2006 est.) 
				Thailand
			35.3 billion cu m (2007 est.) 
				Timor-Leste
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Togo
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Tonga
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Trinidad and Tobago
			20.8 billion cu m (2007 est.) 
				Tunisia
			3.85 billion cu m (2006 est.) 
				Turkey
			36.6 billion cu m (2007 est.) 
				Turkmenistan
			19.48 billion cu m (2007 est.) 
				Turks and Caicos Islands
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Uganda
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Ukraine
			66.32 billion cu m (2008 est.) 
				United Arab Emirates
			43.11 billion cu m (2006 est.) 
				United Kingdom
			91.1 billion cu m (2007 est.) 
				United States
			652.9 billion cu m (2007 est.) 
				Uruguay
			102.8 million cu m (2007 est.) 
				Uzbekistan
			51.18 billion cu m (2007 est.) 
				Vanuatu
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Venezuela
			26.5 billion cu m (2007 est.) 
				Vietnam
			6.86 billion cu m (2007 est.) 
				Virgin Islands
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Western Sahara
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				World
			3.198 trillion cu m (2007 est.) 
				Yemen
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Zambia
			0 cu m (2007 est.) 
				Zimbabwe
			0 cu m (2007 est.)  		
				This page was last updated on 19 March 2009
&nbsp; 
CIA - The World Factbook -- Field Listing - HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate
&nbsp; 
				    &nbsp; 
                    Field Listing - HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate
         Home 
          &nbsp;Reference Maps 
          &nbsp;Appendixes 
          		&nbsp;Rank Order List
			Country
			HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate (%) 
				Afghanistan
			0.01% (2001 est.) 
				Albania
			NA 
				Algeria
			0.1%; note - no country specific models provided (2007 est.) 
				American Samoa
			NA 
				Andorra
			NA 
				Angola
			2.1% (2007 est.) 
				Anguilla
			NA 
				Antigua and Barbuda
			NA 
				Argentina
			0.5% (2007 est.) 
				Armenia
			0.1% (2007 est.) 
				Aruba
			NA 
				Australia
			0.2% (2007 est.) 
				Austria
			0.2% (2007 est.) 
				Azerbaijan
			less than 0.2% (2007 est.) 
				Bahamas, The
			3% (2007 est.) 
				Bahrain
			0.2% (2001 est.) 
				Bangladesh
			less than 0.1% (2001 est.) 
				Barbados
			1.2% (2007 est.) 
				Belarus
			0.2% (2007 est.) 
				Belgium
			0.2% (2007 est.) 
				Belize
			2.1% (2007 est.) 
				Benin
			1.2% (2007 est.) 
				Bermuda
				Bhutan
			less than 0.1% (2007 est.) 
				Bolivia
			0.2% (2007 est.) 
				Bosnia and Herzegovina
			less than 0.1% (2007 est.) 
				Botswana
			23.9% (2007 est.) 
				Brazil
			0.6% (2007 est.) 
				British Virgin Islands
			NA 
				Brunei
			less than 0.1% (2003 est.) 
				Bulgaria
			less than 0.1% (2001 est.) 
				Burkina Faso
			1.6% (2007 est.) 
				Burma
			0.7% (2007 est.) 
				Burundi
			2% (2007 est.) 
				Cambodia
			0.8% (2007 est.) 
				Cameroon
			5.1% (2007 est.) 
				Canada
			0.4% (2007 est.) 
				Cape Verde
			0.035% (2001 est.) 
				Cayman Islands
			NA 
				Central African Republic
			6.3% (2007 est.) 
				Chad
			3.5% (2007 est.) 
				Chile
			0.3% (2007 est.) 
				China
			0.1% (2007 est.) 
				Christmas Island
			NA 
				Cocos (Keeling) Islands
			NA 
				Colombia
			0.6% (2007 est.) 
				Comoros
			less than 0.1% (2007 est.) 
				Congo, Democratic Republic of the
			4.2% (2003 est.) 
				Congo, Republic of the
			3.5% (2007 est.) 
				Cook Islands
			NA 
				Costa Rica
			0.4% (2007 est.) 
				Cote d'Ivoire
			3.9% (2007 est.) 
				Croatia
			less than 0.1% (2007 est.) 
				Cuba
			less than 0.1% (2007 est.) 
				Cyprus
			0.1% (2003 est.) 
				Czech Republic
			less than 0.1% (2001 est.) 
				Denmark
			0.2% (2007 est.) 
				Djibouti
			3.1% (2007 est.) 
				Dominica
			NA 
				Dominican Republic
			1.1% (2007 est.) 
				Ecuador
			0.3% (2007 est.) 
				Egypt
			less than 0.1% (2001 est.) 
				El Salvador
			0.8% (2007 est.) 
				Equatorial Guinea
			3.4% (2007 est.) 
				Eritrea
			1.3% (2007 est.) 
				Estonia
			1.3% (2007 est.) 
				Ethiopia
			2.1% (2007 est.) 
				European Union
			note - see individual country entries of member states 
				Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas)
			NA 
				Faroe Islands
			NA 
				Fiji
			0.1% (2007 est.) 
				Finland
			less than 0.1% (2007 est.) 
				France
			0.4% (2007 est.) 
				French Polynesia
			NA 
				Gabon
			5.9% (2007 est.) 
				Gambia, The
			0.9% (2007 est.) 
				Gaza Strip
			NA 
				Georgia
			less than 0.1% (2007 est.) 
				Germany
			0.1% (2007 est.) 
				Ghana
			1.9% (2007 est.) 
				Gibraltar
			NA 
				Greece
			0.2% (2007 est.) 
				Greenland
			NA 
				Grenada
			NA 
				Guam
			NA 
				Guatemala
			0.8% (2007 est.) 
				Guernsey
			NA 
				Guinea
			1.6% (2007 est.) 
				Guinea-Bissau
			1.8% (2007 est.) 
				Guyana
			2.5% (2007 est.) 
				Haiti
			2.2% (2007 est.) 
				Holy See (Vatican City)
			NA 
				Honduras
			0.7% (2007 est.) 
				Hong Kong
			0.1% (2003 est.) 
				Hungary
			0.1% (2007 est.) 
				Iceland
			0.2% (2007 est.) 
				India
			0.3% (2007 est.) 
				Indonesia
			0.2% (2007 est.) 
				Iran
			0.2% (2007 est.) 
				Iraq
			less than 0.1% (2001 est.) 
				Ireland
			0.2% (2007 est.) 
				Isle of Man
			NA 
				Israel
			0.1% (2007 est.) 
				Italy
			0.4% (2007 est.) 
				Jamaica
			1.6% (2007 est.) 
				Japan
			less than 0.1% (2003 est.) 
				Jersey
			NA 
				Jordan
			less than 0.1% (2001 est.) 
				Kazakhstan
			0.1% (2007 est.) 
				Kenya
			6.7% (2003 est.) 
				Kiribati
			NA 
				Korea, North
			NA 
				Korea, South
			less than 0.1% (2007 est.) 
				Kuwait
			0.12% (2001 est.) 
				Kyrgyzstan
			less than 0.1% (2007 est.) 
				Laos
			0.2% (2007 est.) 
				Latvia
			0.8% (2007 est.) 
				Lebanon
			0.1% (2007 est.) 
				Lesotho
			23.2% (2007 est.) 
				Liberia
			1.7% (2007 est.) 
				Libya
			0.3% (2001 est.) 
				Liechtenstein
			NA 
				Lithuania
			0.1% (2007 est.) 
				Luxembourg
			0.2% (2007 est.) 
				Macau
			NA 
				Macedonia
			less than 0.1% (2007 est.) 
				Madagascar
			0.1% (2007 est.) 
				Malawi
			11.9% (2007 est.) 
				Malaysia
			0.5% (2007 est.) 
				Maldives
			0.1% (2001 est.) 
				Mali
			1.5% (2007 est.) 
				Malta
			0.1% (2007 est.) 
				Marshall Islands
			NA 
				Mauritania
			0.8% (2007 est.) 
				Mauritius
			1.7% (2007 est.) 
				Mayotte
			NA 
				Mexico
			0.3% (2007 est.) 
				Micronesia, Federated States of
			NA 
				Moldova
			0.4% (2007 est.) 
				Monaco
			NA 
				Mongolia
			less than 0.1% (2007 est.) 
				Montserrat
			NA 
				Morocco
			0.1% (2007 est.) 
				Mozambique
			12.5% (2007 est.) 
				Namibia
			15.3% (2007 est.) 
				Nauru
			NA 
				Nepal
			0.5% (2007 est.) 
				Netherlands
			0.2% (2007 est.) 
				Netherlands Antilles
			NA 
				New Caledonia
			NA 
				New Zealand
			0.1% (2007 est.) 
				Nicaragua
			0.2% (2007 est.) 
				Niger
			0.8% (2007 est.) 
				Nigeria
			3.1% (2007 est.) 
				Niue
			NA 
				Norfolk Island
			NA 
				Northern Mariana Islands
			NA 
				Norway
			0.1% (2007 est.) 
				Oman
			0.1% (2001 est.) 
				Pakistan
			0.1% (2007 est.) 
				Palau
			NA 
				Panama
			1% (2007 est.) 
				Papua New Guinea
			1.5% (2007 est.) 
				Paraguay
			0.6% (2007 est.) 
				Peru
			0.5% (2007 est.) 
				Philippines
			less than 0.1% (2003 est.) 
				Pitcairn Islands
			NA 
				Poland
			0.1%; note - no country specific models provided (2007 est.) 
				Portugal
			0.5% (2007 est.) 
				Puerto Rico
			NA 
				Qatar
			0.09% (2001 est.) 
				Romania
			less than 0.1% (2007 est.) 
				Russia
			1.1% (2007 est.) 
				Rwanda
			2.8% (2007 est.) 
				Saint Helena
			NA 
				Saint Kitts and Nevis
			NA 
				Saint Lucia
			NA 
				Saint Pierre and Miquelon
			NA 
				Saint Vincent and the Grenadines
			NA 
				Samoa
			NA 
				San Marino
			NA 
				Sao Tome and Principe
			NA 
				Saudi Arabia
			0.01% (2001 est.) 
				Senegal
			1% (2007 est.) 
				Seychelles
			NA 
				Sierra Leone
			1.7% (2007 est.) 
				Singapore
			0.2% (2007 est.) 
				Slovakia
			less than 0.1% (2007 est.) 
				Slovenia
			less than 0.1% (2007 est.) 
				Solomon Islands
			NA 
				Somalia
			0.5% (2007 est.) 
				South Africa
			18.1% (2007 est.) 
				Spain
			0.5% (2007 est.) 
				Sri Lanka
			less than 0.1% (2001 est.) 
				Sudan
			1.4% (2007 est.) 
				Suriname
			2.4% (2007 est.) 
				Svalbard
				Swaziland
			26.1% (2007 est.) 
				Sweden
			0.1% (2007 est.) 
				Switzerland
			0.6% (2007 est.) 
				Syria
			less than 0.1% (2001 est.) 
				Taiwan
			NA 
				Tajikistan
			less than 0.3% (2007 est.) 
				Tanzania
			6.2% (2007 est.) 
				Thailand
			1.4% (2007 est.) 
				Timor-Leste
			NA 
				Togo
			3.3% (2007 est.) 
				Tokelau
			NA 
				Tonga
			NA 
				Trinidad and Tobago
			1.5% (2007 est.) 
				Tunisia
			less than 0.1% (2007 est.) 
				Turkey
			less than 0.1%; note - no country specific models provided (2001 est.) 
				Turkmenistan
			less than 0.1% (2007 est.) 
				Turks and Caicos Islands
			NA 
				Tuvalu
			NA 
				Uganda
			5.4% (2007 est.) 
				Ukraine
			1.6% (2007 est.) 
				United Arab Emirates
			0.18% (2001 est.) 
				United Kingdom
			0.2% (2007 est.) 
				United States
			0.6% (2007 est.) 
				Uruguay
			0.6% (2007 est.) 
				Uzbekistan
			less than 0.1% (2007 est.) 
				Vanuatu
			NA 
				Venezuela
			0.7%; note - no country specific models provided (2001 est.) 
				Vietnam
			0.5% (2007 est.) 
				Virgin Islands
			NA 
				Wallis and Futuna
			NA 
				West Bank
			NA 
				Western Sahara
			NA 
				World
			NA 0.8% (2007 est.) 
				Yemen
			0.1% (2001 est.) 
				Zambia
			15.2% (2007 est.) 
				Zimbabwe
			15.3% (2007 est.)  		
				This page was last updated on 19 March 2009
&nbsp; 
CIA - The World Factbook -- Field Listing - Flag description
&nbsp; 
				    &nbsp; 
                    Field Listing - Flag description
         Home 
          &nbsp;Reference Maps 
          &nbsp;Appendixes 
			Country
			Flag description 	
				Afghanistan
			three equal vertical bands of black (hoist side), red, and green, with the national emblem in white centered on the red band and slightly overlapping the other two bands; the center of the emblem features a mosque with pulpit and flags on either side, below the mosque are numerals for the solar year 1298 (1919 in the Gregorian calendar, the year of Afghan independence from the UK); this central image is circled by a border consisting of sheaves of wheat on the left and right, in the upper-center is an Arabic inscription of the Shahada (Muslim creed) below which are rays of the rising sun over the Takbir (Arabic expression meaning "God is great"), and at bottom center is a scroll bearing the name Afghanistan 
				Akrotiri
			the flag of the UK is used 
				Albania
			red with a black two-headed eagle in the center 
				Algeria
			two equal vertical bands of green (hoist side) and white; a red, five-pointed star within a red crescent centered over the two-color boundary 
				note: the crescent, star, and color green are traditional symbols of Islam (the state religion) 
				American Samoa
			blue, with a white triangle edged in red that is based on the fly side and extends to the hoist side; a brown and white American bald eagle flying toward the hoist side is carrying two traditional Samoan symbols of authority, a war club known as a "Fa'alaufa'i" (upper; left talon), and a coconut fiber fly whisk known as a "Fue" (lower; right talon); the combination of symbols broadly mimics that seen on the US Great Seal and reflects the relationship between the United States and American Samoa 
				Andorra
			three equal vertical bands of blue (hoist side), yellow, and red with the national coat of arms centered in the yellow band; the coat of arms features a quartered shield 
				note: similar to the flags of Chad and Romania, which do not have a national coat of arms in the center, and the flag of Moldova, which does bear a national emblem 
				Angola
			two equal horizontal bands of red (top) and black with a centered yellow emblem consisting of a five-pointed star within half a cogwheel crossed by a machete (in the style of a hammer and sickle) 
				Anguilla
			blue, with the flag of the UK in the upper hoist-side quadrant and the Anguillan coat of arms centered in the outer half of the flag; the coat of arms depicts three orange dolphins in an interlocking circular design on a white background with blue wavy water below 
				Antigua and Barbuda
			red, with an inverted isosceles triangle based on the top edge of the flag; the triangle contains three horizontal bands of black (top), light blue, and white, with a yellow rising sun in the black band 
				Argentina
			three equal horizontal bands of light blue (top), white, and light blue; centered in the white band is a radiant yellow sun with a human face known as the Sun of May 
				Armenia
			three equal horizontal bands of red (top), blue, and orange 
				Aruba
			blue, with two narrow, horizontal, yellow stripes across the lower portion and a red, four-pointed star outlined in white in the upper hoist-side corner 
				Ashmore and Cartier Islands
			the flag of Australia is used 
				Australia
			blue with the flag of the UK in the upper hoist-side quadrant and a large seven-pointed star in the lower hoist-side quadrant known as the Commonwealth or Federation Star, representing the federation of the colonies of Australia in 1901; the star depicts one point for each of the six original states and one representing all of Australia's internal and external territories; on the fly half is a representation of the Southern Cross constellation in white with one small five-pointed star and four larger, seven-pointed stars 
				Austria
			three equal horizontal bands of red (top), white, and red 
				Azerbaijan
			three equal horizontal bands of blue (top), red, and green; a crescent and eight-pointed star in white are centered in red band 
				Bahamas, The
			three equal horizontal bands of aquamarine (top), gold, and aquamarine, with a black equilateral triangle based on the hoist side 
				Bahrain
			red, the traditional color for flags of Persian Gulf states, with a white serrated band (five white points) on the hoist side; the five points represent the five pillars of Islam 
				Bangladesh
			green field with a large red disk shifted slightly to the hoist side of center; the red disk represents the rising sun and the sacrifice to achieve independence; the green field symbolizes the lush vegetation of Bangladesh 
				Barbados
			three equal vertical bands of blue (hoist side), gold, and blue with the head of a black trident centered on the gold band; the trident head represents independence and a break with the past (the colonial coat of arms contained a complete trident) 
				Belarus
			red horizontal band (top) and green horizontal band one-half the width of the red band; a white vertical stripe on the hoist side bears Belarusian national ornamentation in red 
				Belgium
			three equal vertical bands of black (hoist side), yellow, and red 
				note: the design was based on the flag of France 
				Belize
			blue with a narrow red stripe along the top and the bottom edges; centered is a large white disk bearing the coat of arms; the coat of arms features a shield flanked by two workers in front of a mahogany tree with the related motto SUB UMBRA FLOREO (I Flourish in the Shade) on a scroll at the bottom, all encircled by a green garland 
				Benin
			two equal horizontal bands of yellow (top) and red (bottom) with a vertical green band on the hoist side 
				Bermuda
			red, with the flag of the UK in the upper hoist-side quadrant and the Bermudian coat of arms (white and green shield with a red lion holding a scrolled shield showing the sinking of the ship Sea Venture off Bermuda in 1609) centered on the outer half of the flag 
				Bhutan
			divided diagonally from the lower hoist-side corner; the upper triangle is yellow and the lower triangle is orange; centered along the dividing line is a large black and white dragon facing away from the hoist side 
				Bolivia
			three equal horizontal bands of red (top), yellow, and green with the coat of arms centered on the yellow band 
				note: similar to the flag of Ghana, which has a large black five-pointed star centered in the yellow band 
				Bosnia and Herzegovina
			a wide medium blue vertical band on the fly side with a yellow isosceles triangle abutting the band and the top of the flag; the remainder of the flag is medium blue with seven full five-pointed white stars and two half stars top and bottom along the hypotenuse of the triangle 
				Botswana
			light blue with a horizontal white-edged black stripe in the center 
				Bouvet Island
			the flag of Norway is used 
				Brazil
			green with a large yellow diamond in the center bearing a blue celestial globe with 27 white five-pointed stars (one for each state and the Federal District) arranged in the same pattern as the night sky over Brazil; the globe has a white equatorial band with the motto ORDEM E PROGRESSO (Order and Progress) 
				British Indian Ocean Territory
			white with six blue wavy horizontal stripes; the flag of the UK is in the upper hoist-side quadrant; the striped section bears a palm tree and yellow crown centered on the outer half of the flag 
				British Virgin Islands
			blue, with the flag of the UK in the upper hoist-side quadrant and the Virgin Islander coat of arms centered in the outer half of the flag; the coat of arms depicts a woman flanked on either side by a vertical column of six oil lamps above a scroll bearing the Latin word VIGILATE (Be Watchful) 
				Brunei
			yellow with two diagonal bands of white (top, almost double width) and black starting from the upper hoist side; the national emblem in red is superimposed at the center; the emblem includes a swallow-tailed flag on top of a winged column within an upturned crescent above a scroll and flanked by two upraised hands 
				Bulgaria
			three equal horizontal bands of white (top), green, and red 
				note: the national emblem, formerly on the hoist side of the white stripe, has been removed 
				Burkina Faso
			two equal horizontal bands of red (top) and green with a yellow five-pointed star in the center 
				note: uses the popular pan-African colors of Ethiopia 
				Burma
			red with a blue rectangle in the upper hoist-side corner bearing 14, white, five-pointed stars encircling a cogwheel containing a stalk of rice; the 14 stars represent the seven administrative divisions and seven states 
				Burundi
			divided by a white diagonal cross into red panels (top and bottom) and green panels (hoist side and fly side) with a white disk superimposed at the center bearing three red six-pointed stars outlined in green arranged in a triangular design (one star above, two stars below) 
				Cambodia
			three horizontal bands of blue (top), red (double width), and blue with a white three-towered temple representing Angkor Wat outlined in black in the center of the red band 
				note: only national flag to incorporate an actual building in its design 
				Cameroon
			three equal vertical bands of green (hoist side), red, and yellow with a yellow five-pointed star centered in the red band 
				note: uses the popular pan-African colors of Ethiopia 
				Canada
			two vertical bands of red (hoist and fly side, half width), with white square between them; an 11-pointed red maple leaf is centered in the white square; the official colors of Canada are red and white 
				Cape Verde
			five unequal horizontal bands; the top-most band of blue - equal to one half the width of the flag - is followed by three bands of white, red, and white, each equal to 1/12 of the width, and a bottom stripe of blue equal to one quarter of the flag width; a circle of 10, yellow, five-pointed stars, each representing one of the islands, is centered on the red stripe and positioned 3/8 of the length of the flag from the hoist side 
				Cayman Islands
			blue, with the flag of the UK in the upper hoist-side quadrant and the Caymanian coat of arms centered on the outer half of the flag; the coat of arms includes a pineapple and turtle above a shield with three stars (representing the three islands) and a scroll at the bottom bearing the motto HE HATH FOUNDED IT UPON THE SEAS 
				Central African Republic
			four equal horizontal bands of blue (top), white, green, and yellow with a vertical red band in center; a yellow five-pointed star to the hoist side of the blue band 
				Chad
			three equal vertical bands of blue (hoist side), yellow, and red 
				note: similar to the flag of Romania; also similar to the flags of Andorra and Moldova, both of which have a national coat of arms centered in the yellow band; design was based on the flag of France 
				Chile
			two equal horizontal bands of white (top) and red; a blue square the same height as the white band at the hoist-side end of the white band; the square bears a white five-pointed star in the center representing a guide to progress and honor; blue symbolizes the sky, white is for the snow-covered Andes, and red represents the blood spilled to achieve independence 
				note: design was influenced by the US flag 
				China
			red with a large yellow five-pointed star and four smaller yellow five-pointed stars (arranged in a vertical arc toward the middle of the flag) in the upper hoist-side corner 
				Christmas Island
			territorial flag; divided diagonally from upper hoist to lower fly; the upper triangle is green with a yellow image of the Golden Bosun Bird superimposed, while the lower triangle is blue with the Southern Cross constellation, representing Australia, superimposed; a centered yellow disk displays a green map of the island 
				note: the flag of Australia is used for official purposes 
				Clipperton Island
			the flag of France is used 
				Cocos (Keeling) Islands
			the flag of Australia is used 
				Colombia
			three horizontal bands of yellow (top, double-width), blue, and red 
				note: similar to the flag of Ecuador, which is longer and bears the Ecuadorian coat of arms superimposed in the center 
				Comoros
			four equal horizontal bands of yellow (top), white, red, and blue with a green isosceles triangle based on the hoist; centered within the triangle is a white crescent with the convex side facing the hoist and four white, five-pointed stars placed vertically in a line between the points of the crescent; the horizontal bands and the four stars represent the four main islands of the archipelago - Mwali, N'gazidja, Nzwani, and Mahore (Mayotte - territorial collectivity of France, but claimed by Comoros) 
				note: the crescent, stars, and color green are traditional symbols of Islam 
				Congo, Democratic Republic of the
			sky blue field divided diagonally from the lower hoist corner to upper fly corner by a red stripe bordered by two narrow yellow stripes; a yellow, five-pointed star appears in the upper hoist corner 
				Congo, Republic of the
			divided diagonally from the lower hoist side by a yellow band; the upper triangle (hoist side) is green and the lower triangle is red 
				note: uses the popular pan-African colors of Ethiopia 
				Cook Islands
			blue, with the flag of the UK in the upper hoist-side quadrant and a large circle of 15 white five-pointed stars (one for every island) centered in the outer half of the flag 
				Coral Sea Islands
			the flag of Australia is used 
				Costa Rica
			five horizontal bands of blue (top), white, red (double width), white, and blue, with the coat of arms in a white elliptical disk on the hoist side of the red band; above the coat of arms a light blue ribbon contains the words, AMERICA CENTRAL, and just below it near the top of the coat of arms is a white ribbon with the words, REPUBLICA COSTA RICA 
				Cote d'Ivoire
			three equal vertical bands of orange (hoist side), white, and green 
				note: similar to the flag of Ireland, which is longer and has the colors reversed - green (hoist side), white, and orange; also similar to the flag of Italy, which is green (hoist side), white, and red; design was based on the flag of France 
				Croatia
			three equal horizontal bands of red (top), white, and blue superimposed by the Croatian coat of arms (red and white checkered) 
				Cuba
			five equal horizontal bands of blue (top, center, and bottom) alternating with white; a red equilateral triangle based on the hoist side bears a white, five-pointed star in the center 
				Cyprus
			white with a copper-colored silhouette of the island (the name Cyprus is derived from the Greek word for copper) above two green crossed olive branches in the center of the flag; the branches symbolize the hope for peace and reconciliation between the Greek and Turkish communities 
				note: the "Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus" flag has a white field with narrow horizontal red stripes positioned a small distance from the top and bottom edges between which is centered a red crescent and a red five-pointed star 
				Czech Republic
			two equal horizontal bands of white (top) and red with a blue isosceles triangle based on the hoist side 
				note: identical to the flag of the former Czechoslovakia 
				Denmark
			red with a white cross that extends to the edges of the flag; the vertical part of the cross is shifted to the hoist side; the banner is referred to as the Dannebrog (Danish flag) 
				note: the shifted design element was subsequently adopted by the other Nordic countries of Finland, Iceland, Norway, and Sweden 
				Dhekelia
			the flag of the UK is used 
				Djibouti
			two equal horizontal bands of light blue (top) and light green with a white isosceles triangle based on the hoist side bearing a red five-pointed star in the center 
				Dominica
			green, with a centered cross of three equal bands - the vertical part is yellow (hoist side), black, and white and the horizontal part is yellow (top), black, and white; superimposed in the center of the cross is a red disk bearing a sisserou parrot encircled by 10 green, five-pointed stars edged in yellow; the 10 stars represent the 10 administrative divisions (parishes) 
				Dominican Republic
			a centered white cross that extends to the edges divides the flag into four rectangles - the top ones are blue (hoist side) and red, and the bottom ones are red (hoist side) and blue; a small coat of arms featuring a shield supported by an olive branch (left) and a palm branch (right) is at the center of the cross; above the shield a blue ribbon displays the motto, DIOS, PATRIA, LIBERTAD (God, Fatherland, Liberty), and below the shield, REPUBLICA DOMINICANA appears on a red ribbon 
				Ecuador
			three horizontal bands of yellow (top, double width), blue, and red with the coat of arms superimposed at the center of the flag; similar to the flag of Colombia, which is shorter and does not bear a coat of arms 
				Egypt
			three equal horizontal bands of red (top), white, and black; the national emblem (a gold Eagle of Saladin facing the hoist side with a shield superimposed on its chest above a scroll bearing the name of the country in Arabic) centered in the white band; design is based on the Arab Liberation flag and similar to the flag of Syria, which has two green stars in the white band, Iraq, which has an Arabic inscription centered in the white band, and Yemen, which has a plain white band 
				El Salvador
			three equal horizontal bands of blue (top), white, and blue with the national coat of arms centered in the white band; the coat of arms features a round emblem encircled by the words REPUBLICA DE EL SALVADOR EN LA AMERICA CENTRAL; similar to the flag of Nicaragua, which has a different coat of arms centered in the white band - it features a triangle encircled by the words REPUBLICA DE NICARAGUA on top and AMERICA CENTRAL on the bottom; also similar to the flag of Honduras, which has five blue stars arranged in an X pattern centered in the white band 
				Equatorial Guinea
			three equal horizontal bands of green (top), white, and red with a blue isosceles triangle based on the hoist side and the coat of arms centered in the white band; the coat of arms has six yellow six-pointed stars (representing the mainland and five offshore islands) above a gray shield bearing a silk-cotton tree and below which is a scroll with the motto UNIDAD, PAZ, JUSTICIA (Unity, Peace, Justice) 
				Eritrea
			red isosceles triangle (based on the hoist side) dividing the flag into two right triangles; the upper triangle is green, the lower one is blue; a gold wreath encircling a gold olive branch is centered on the hoist side of the red triangle 
				Estonia
			pre-1940 flag restored by Supreme Soviet in May 1990 - three equal horizontal bands of blue (top), black, and white 
				Ethiopia
			three equal horizontal bands of green (top), yellow, and red with a yellow pentagram and single yellow rays emanating from the angles between the points on a light blue disk centered on the three bands; Ethiopia is the oldest independent country in Africa, and the three main colors of her flag were so often adopted by other African countries upon independence that they became known as the pan-African colors 
				European Union
			blue field with 12 five-pointed gold stars arranged in a circle in the center, representing the union of the peoples of Europe; the number of stars is fixed 
				Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas)
			blue with the flag of the UK in the upper hoist-side quadrant and the Falkland Island coat of arms centered on the outer half of the flag; the coat of arms contains a white ram (sheep raising was once the major economic activity) above the sailing ship Desire (whose crew discovered the islands) with a scroll at the bottom bearing the motto DESIRE THE RIGHT 
				Faroe Islands
			white with a red cross outlined in blue extending to the edges of the flag; the vertical part of the cross is shifted toward the hoist side in the style of the Dannebrog (Danish flag) 
				Fiji
			light blue with the flag of the UK in the upper hoist-side quadrant and the Fijian shield centered on the outer half of the flag; the shield depicts a yellow lion above a white field quartered by the cross of Saint George featuring stalks of sugarcane, a palm tree, bananas, and a white dove 
				Finland
			white with a blue cross extending to the edges of the flag; the vertical part of the cross is shifted to the hoist side in the style of the Dannebrog (Danish flag) 
				France
			three equal vertical bands of blue (hoist side), white, and red; known as the "Le drapeau tricolore" (French Tricolor), the origin of the flag dates to 1790 and the French Revolution; the design and/or colors are similar to a number of other flags, including those of Belgium, Chad, Ireland, Cote d'Ivoire, Luxembourg, and Netherlands; the official flag for all French dependent areas 
				French Polynesia
			two narrow red horizontal bands encase a wide white band; centered on the white band is a disk with a blue and white wave pattern on the lower half and a gold and white ray pattern on the upper half; a stylized red, blue, and white ship rides on the wave pattern; the French flag is used for official occasions 
				French Southern and Antarctic Lands
			the flag of France is used 
				Gabon
			three equal horizontal bands of green (top), yellow, and blue 
				Gambia, The
			three equal horizontal bands of red (top), blue with white edges, and green 
				Georgia
			white rectangle, in its central portion a red cross connecting all four sides of the flag; in each of the four corners is a small red bolnur-katskhuri cross; the five-cross flag appears to date back to the 14th century 
				Germany
			three equal horizontal bands of black (top), red, and gold 
				Ghana
			three equal horizontal bands of red (top), yellow, and green with a large black five-pointed star centered in the yellow band; uses the popular pan-African colors of Ethiopia; similar to the flag of Bolivia, which has a coat of arms centered in the yellow band 
				Gibraltar
			two horizontal bands of white (top, double width) and red with a three-towered red castle in the center of the white band; hanging from the castle gate is a gold key centered in the red band 
				Greece
			nine equal horizontal stripes of blue alternating with white; there is a blue square in the upper hoist-side corner bearing a white cross; the cross symbolizes Greek Orthodoxy, the established religion of the country 
				Greenland
			two equal horizontal bands of white (top) and red with a large disk slightly to the hoist side of center - the top half of the disk is red, the bottom half is white 
				Grenada
			a rectangle divided diagonally into yellow triangles (top and bottom) and green triangles (hoist side and outer side), with a red border around the flag; there are seven yellow, five-pointed stars with three centered in the top red border, three centered in the bottom red border, and one on a red disk superimposed at the center of the flag; there is also a symbolic nutmeg pod on the hoist-side triangle (Grenada is the world's second-largest producer of nutmeg, after Indonesia); the seven stars represent the seven administrative divisions 
				Guam
			territorial flag is dark blue with a narrow red border on all four sides; centered is a red-bordered, pointed, vertical ellipse containing a beach scene, outrigger canoe with sail, and a palm tree with the word GUAM superimposed in bold red letters; US flag is the national flag 
				Guatemala
			three equal vertical bands of light blue (hoist side), white, and light blue with the coat of arms centered in the white band; the coat of arms includes a green and red quetzal (the national bird) and a scroll bearing the inscription LIBERTAD 15 DE SEPTIEMBRE DE 1821 (the original date of independence from Spain) all superimposed on a pair of crossed rifles and a pair of crossed swords and framed by a wreath 
				Guernsey
			white with the red cross of Saint George (patron saint of England) extending to the edges of the flag and a yellow equal-armed cross of William the Conqueror superimposed on the Saint George cross 
				Guinea
			three equal vertical bands of red (hoist side), yellow, and green; uses the popular pan-African colors of Ethiopia 
				Guinea-Bissau
			two equal horizontal bands of yellow (top) and green with a vertical red band on the hoist side; there is a black five-pointed star centered in the red band; uses the popular pan-African colors of Ethiopia 
				Guyana
			green, with a red isosceles triangle (based on the hoist side) superimposed on a long, yellow arrowhead; there is a narrow, black border between the red and yellow, and a narrow, white border between the yellow and the green 
				Haiti
			two equal horizontal bands of blue (top) and red with a centered white rectangle bearing the coat of arms, which contains a palm tree flanked by flags and two cannons above a scroll bearing the motto L'UNION FAIT LA FORCE (Union Makes Strength) 
				Heard Island and McDonald Islands
			the flag of Australia is used 
				Holy See (Vatican City)
			two vertical bands of yellow (hoist side) and white with the arms of the Holy See, consisting of the crossed keys of Saint Peter surmounted by the three-tiered papal tiara, centered in the white band 
				Honduras
			three equal horizontal bands of blue (top), white, and blue with five blue, five-pointed stars arranged in an X pattern centered in the white band; the stars represent the members of the former Federal Republic of Central America - Costa Rica, El Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras, and Nicaragua; similar to the flag of El Salvador, which features a round emblem encircled by the words REPUBLICA DE EL SALVADOR EN LA AMERICA CENTRAL centered in the white band; also similar to the flag of Nicaragua, which features a triangle encircled by the word REPUBLICA DE NICARAGUA on top and AMERICA CENTRAL on the bottom, centered in the white band 
				Hong Kong
			red with a stylized, white, five-petal bauhinia flower in the center 
				Hungary
			three equal horizontal bands of red (top), white, and green 
				Iceland
			blue with a red cross outlined in white extending to the edges of the flag; the vertical part of the cross is shifted to the hoist side in the style of the Dannebrog (Danish flag) 
				India
			three equal horizontal bands of saffron (subdued orange) (top), white, and green with a blue chakra (24-spoked wheel) centered in the white band; similar to the flag of Niger, which has a small orange disk centered in the white band 
				Indonesia
			two equal horizontal bands of red (top) and white; similar to the flag of Monaco, which is shorter; also similar to the flag of Poland, which is white (top) and red 
				Iran
			three equal horizontal bands of green (top), white, and red; the national emblem (a stylized representation of the word Allah in the shape of a tulip, a symbol of martyrdom) in red is centered in the white band; ALLAH AKBAR (God is Great) in white Arabic script is repeated 11 times along the bottom edge of the green band and 11 times along the top edge of the red band 
				Iraq
			three equal horizontal bands of red (top), white, and black; the Takbir (Arabic expression meaning "God is great") in green Arabic script is centered in the white band; similar to the flag of Syria, which has two stars but no script, Yemen, which has a plain white band, and that of Egypt, which has a gold Eagle of Saladin centered in the white band; design is based upon the Arab Liberation colors; Council of Representatives approved this flag as a compromise temporary replacement for Ba'athist Saddam-era flag 
				Ireland
			three equal vertical bands of green (hoist side), white, and orange; similar to the flag of Cote d'Ivoire, which is shorter and has the colors reversed - orange (hoist side), white, and green; also similar to the flag of Italy, which is shorter and has colors of green (hoist side), white, and red 
				Isle of Man
			red with the Three Legs of Man emblem (Trinacria), in the center; the three legs are joined at the thigh and bent at the knee; in order to have the toes pointing clockwise on both sides of the flag, a two-sided emblem is used 
				Israel
			white with a blue hexagram (six-pointed linear star) known as the Magen David (Shield of David) centered between two equal horizontal blue bands near the top and bottom edges of the flag 
				Italy
			three equal vertical bands of green (hoist side), white, and red; similar to the flag of Ireland, which is longer and is green (hoist side), white, and orange; also similar to the flag of the Cote d'Ivoire, which has the colors reversed - orange (hoist side), white, and green; inspired by the French flag brought to Italy by Napoleon in 1797 
				Jamaica
			diagonal yellow cross divides the flag into four triangles - green (top and bottom) and black (hoist side and outer side) 
				Jan Mayen
			the flag of Norway is used 
				Japan
			white with a large red disk (representing the sun without rays) in the center 
				Jersey
			white with a diagonal red cross extending to the corners of the flag; in the upper quadrant, surmounted by a yellow crown, a red shield with the three lions of England in yellow 
				Jordan
			three equal horizontal bands of black (top), representing the Abbassid Caliphate, white, representing the Ummayyad Caliphate, and green, representing the Fatimid Caliphate; a red isosceles triangle on the hoist side, representing the Great Arab Revolt of 1916, and bearing a small white seven-pointed star symbolizing the seven verses of the opening Sura (Al-Fatiha) of the Holy Koran; the seven points on the star represent faith in One God, humanity, national spirit, humility, social justice, virtue, and aspirations; design is based on the Arab Revolt flag of World War I 
				Kazakhstan
			sky blue background representing the endless sky and a gold sun with 32 rays above a soaring golden steppe eagle in the center; on the hoist side is a "national ornamentation" in gold 
				Kenya
			three equal horizontal bands of black (top), red, and green; the red band is edged in white; a large warrior's shield covering crossed spears is superimposed at the center 
				Kiribati
			the upper half is red with a yellow frigate bird flying over a yellow rising sun, and the lower half is blue with three horizontal wavy white stripes to represent the ocean 
				Korea, North
			three horizontal bands of blue (top), red (triple width), and blue; the red band is edged in white; on the hoist side of the red band is a white disk with a red five-pointed star 
				Korea, South
			white with a red (top) and blue yin-yang symbol in the center; there is a different black trigram from the ancient I Ching (Book of Changes) in each corner of the white field 
				Kosovo
			centered on a dark blue field is the geographical shape of Kosovo in a gold color surmounted by six white, five-pointed stars - each representing one of the major ethnic groups of Kosovo - arrayed in a slight arc 
				Kuwait
			three equal horizontal bands of green (top), white, and red with a black trapezoid based on the hoist side; design, which dates to 1961, based on the Arab revolt flag of World War I 
				Kyrgyzstan
			red field with a yellow sun in the center having 40 rays representing the 40 Kyrgyz tribes; on the obverse side the rays run counterclockwise, on the reverse, clockwise; in the center of the sun is a red ring crossed by two sets of three lines, a stylized representation of the roof of the traditional Kyrgyz yurt 
				Laos
			three horizontal bands of red (top), blue (double width), and red with a large white disk centered in the blue band 
				Latvia
			three horizontal bands of maroon (top), white (half-width), and maroon 
				Lebanon
			three horizontal bands consisting of red (top), white (middle, double width), and red (bottom) with a green cedar tree centered in the white band 
				Lesotho
			three horizontal stripes of blue (top), white, and green in the proportions of 3:4:3; the colors represent rain, peace, and prosperity respectively; centered in the white stripe is a black Basotho hat representing the indigenous people; the flag was unfurled in October 2006 to celebrate 40 years of independence 
				Liberia
			11 equal horizontal stripes of red (top and bottom) alternating with white; there is a white five-pointed star on a blue square in the upper hoist-side corner; the design was based on the US flag 
				Libya
			plain green; green is the traditional color of Islam (the state religion) 
				Liechtenstein
			two equal horizontal bands of blue (top) and red with a gold crown on the hoist side of the blue band 
				Lithuania
			three equal horizontal bands of yellow (top), green, and red 
				Luxembourg
			three equal horizontal bands of red (top), white, and light blue; similar to the flag of the Netherlands, which uses a darker blue and is shorter; design was based on the flag of France 
				Macau
			light green with a lotus flower above a stylized bridge and water in white, beneath an arc of five gold, five-pointed stars: one large in center of arc and four smaller 
				Macedonia
			a yellow sun with eight broadening rays extending to the edges of the red field 
				Madagascar
			two equal horizontal bands of red (top) and green with a vertical white band of the same width on hoist side 
				Malawi
			three equal horizontal bands of black (top), red, and green with a radiant, rising, red sun centered in the black band 
				Malaysia
			14 equal horizontal stripes of red (top) alternating with white (bottom); there is a blue rectangle in the upper hoist-side corner bearing a yellow crescent and a yellow 14-pointed star; the crescent and the star are traditional symbols of Islam; the design was based on the flag of the US 
				Maldives
			red with a large green rectangle in the center bearing a vertical white crescent; the closed side of the crescent is on the hoist side of the flag 
				Mali
			three equal vertical bands of green (hoist side), yellow, and red; uses the popular pan-African colors of Ethiopia 
				Malta
			two equal vertical bands of white (hoist side) and red; in the upper hoist-side corner is a representation of the George Cross, edged in red 
				Marshall Islands
			blue with two stripes radiating from the lower hoist-side corner - orange (top) and white; there is a white star with four large rays and 20 small rays on the hoist side above the two stripes 
				Mauritania
			green with a yellow five-pointed star above a yellow, horizontal crescent; the closed side of the crescent is down; the crescent, star, and color green are traditional symbols of Islam 
				Mauritius
			four equal horizontal bands of red (top), blue, yellow, and green 
				Mayotte
			unofficial, local flag with the coat of arms of Mayotte centered on a white field, above which the name of the island appears in red capital letters; the main elements of the coat of arms, flanked on either side by a seahorse, appear above a scroll with the motto RA HACHIRI (We are Vigilant); the only official flag is the national flag of France 
				Mexico
			three equal vertical bands of green (hoist side), white, and red; the coat of arms (an eagle with a snake in its beak perched on a cactus) is centered in the white band 
				Micronesia, Federated States of
			light blue with four white five-pointed stars centered; the stars are arranged in a diamond pattern 
				Moldova
			three equal vertical bands of blue (hoist side), yellow, and red; emblem in center of flag is of a Roman eagle of gold outlined in black with a red beak and talons carrying a yellow cross in its beak and a green olive branch in its right talons and a yellow scepter in its left talons; on its breast is a shield divided horizontally red over blue with a stylized ox head, star, rose, and crescent all in black-outlined yellow; same color scheme as Romania 
				Monaco
			two equal horizontal bands of red (top) and white; similar to the flag of Indonesia which is longer and the flag of Poland which is white (top) and red 
				Mongolia
			three equal, vertical bands of red (hoist side), blue, and red; centered on the hoist-side red band in yellow is the national emblem ("soyombo" - a columnar arrangement of abstract and geometric representation for fire, sun, moon, earth, water, and the yin-yang symbol) 
				Montenegro
			a red field bordered by a narrow golden-yellow stripe with the Montenegrin coat of arms centered 
				Montserrat
			blue, with the flag of the UK in the upper hoist-side quadrant and the Montserratian coat of arms centered in the outer half of the flag; the coat of arms features a woman standing beside a yellow harp with her arm around a black cross 
				Morocco
			red with a green pentacle (five-pointed, linear star) known as Sulayman's (Solomon's) seal in the center of the flag; red and green are traditional colors in Arab flags, although the use of red is more commonly associated with the Arab states of the Persian gulf; design dates to 1912 
				Mozambique
			three equal horizontal bands of green (top), black, and yellow with a red isosceles triangle based on the hoist side; the black band is edged in white; centered in the triangle is a yellow five-pointed star bearing a crossed rifle and hoe in black superimposed on an open white book 
				Namibia
			a wide red stripe edged by narrow white stripes divides the flag diagonally from lower hoist corner to upper fly corner; the upper hoist-side triangle is blue and charged with a yellow, 12-rayed sunburst; the lower fly-side triangle is green 
				Nauru
			blue with a narrow, horizontal, yellow stripe across the center and a large white 12-pointed star below the stripe on the hoist side; the star indicates the country's location in relation to the Equator (the yellow stripe) and the 12 points symbolize the 12 original tribes of Nauru 
				Navassa Island
			the flag of the US is used 
				Nepal
			red with a blue border around the unique shape of two overlapping right triangles; the smaller, upper triangle bears a white stylized moon and the larger, lower triangle bears a white 12-pointed sun 
				Netherlands
			three equal horizontal bands of red (top), white, and blue; similar to the flag of Luxembourg, which uses a lighter blue and is longer; one of the oldest flags in constant use, originating with WILLIAM I, Prince of Orange, in the latter half of the 16th century 
				Netherlands Antilles
			white, with a horizontal blue stripe in the center superimposed on a vertical red band, also centered; five white, five-pointed stars are arranged in an oval pattern in the center of the blue band; the five stars represent the five main islands of Bonaire, Curacao, Saba, Sint Eustatius, and Sint Maarten 
				New Caledonia
			the flag of France is used 
				New Zealand
			blue with the flag of the UK in the upper hoist-side quadrant with four red five-pointed stars edged in white centered in the outer half of the flag; the stars represent the Southern Cross constellation 
				Nicaragua
			three equal horizontal bands of blue (top), white, and blue with the national coat of arms centered in the white band; the coat of arms features a triangle encircled by the words REPUBLICA DE NICARAGUA on the top and AMERICA CENTRAL on the bottom; similar to the flag of El Salvador, which features a round emblem encircled by the words REPUBLICA DE EL SALVADOR EN LA AMERICA CENTRAL centered in the white band; also similar to the flag of Honduras, which has five blue stars arranged in an X pattern centered in the white band 
				Niger
			three equal horizontal bands of orange (top), white, and green with a small orange disk (representing the sun) centered in the white band; similar to the flag of India, which has a blue spoked wheel centered in the white band 
				Nigeria
			three equal vertical bands of green (hoist side), white, and green 
				Niue
			yellow with the flag of the UK in the upper hoist-side quadrant; the flag of the UK bears five yellow five-pointed stars - a large star on a blue disk in the center and a smaller star on each arm of the bold red cross 
				Norfolk Island
			three vertical bands of green (hoist side), white, and green with a large green Norfolk Island pine tree centered in the slightly wider white band 
				Northern Mariana Islands
			blue, with a white, five-pointed star superimposed on the gray silhouette of a latte stone (a traditional foundation stone used in building) in the center, surrounded by a wreath 
				Norway
			red with a blue cross outlined in white that extends to the edges of the flag; the vertical part of the cross is shifted to the hoist side in the style of the Dannebrog (Danish flag) 
				Oman
			three horizontal bands of white, red, and green of equal width with a broad, vertical, red band on the hoist side; the national emblem (a khanjar dagger in its sheath superimposed on two crossed swords in scabbards) in white is centered near the top of the vertical band 
				Pakistan
			green with a vertical white band (symbolizing the role of religious minorities) on the hoist side; a large white crescent and star are centered in the green field; the crescent, star, and color green are traditional symbols of Islam 
				Palau
			light blue with a large yellow disk (representing the moon) shifted slightly to the hoist side 
				Panama
			divided into four, equal rectangles; the top quadrants are white (hoist side) with a blue five-pointed star in the center and plain red; the bottom quadrants are plain blue (hoist side) and white with a red five-pointed star in the center 
				Papua New Guinea
			divided diagonally from upper hoist-side corner; the upper triangle is red with a soaring yellow bird of paradise centered; the lower triangle is black with five, white, five-pointed stars of the Southern Cross constellation centered 
				Paraguay
			three equal, horizontal bands of red (top), white, and blue with an emblem centered in the white band; unusual flag in that the emblem is different on each side; the obverse (hoist side at the left) bears the national coat of arms (a yellow five-pointed star within a green wreath capped by the words REPUBLICA DEL PARAGUAY, all within two circles); the reverse (hoist side at the right) bears the seal of the treasury (a yellow lion below a red Cap of Liberty and the words Paz y Justicia (Peace and Justice) capped by the words REPUBLICA DEL PARAGUAY, all within two circles) 
				Peru
			three equal, vertical bands of red (hoist side), white, and red with the coat of arms centered in the white band; the coat of arms features a shield bearing a vicuna, cinchona tree (the source of quinine), and a yellow cornucopia spilling out gold coins, all framed by a green wreath 
				Philippines
			two equal horizontal bands of blue (top; representing peace and justice) and red (representing courage); a white equilateral triangle based on the hoist side represents equality; the center of the triangle displays a yellow sun with eight primary rays, each representing one of the first eight provinces that sought independence from Spain; each corner of the triangle contains a small, yellow, five-pointed star representing the three major geographical divisions of the country: Luzon, Visayas, and Mindanao; the design of the flag dates to 1897; in wartime the flag is flown upside down with the red band at the top 
				Pitcairn Islands
			blue with the flag of the UK in the upper hoist-side quadrant and the Pitcairn Islander coat of arms centered on the outer half of the flag; the coat of arms is yellow, green, and light blue with a shield featuring a yellow anchor 
				Poland
			two equal horizontal bands of white (top) and red; similar to the flags of Indonesia and Monaco which are red (top) and white 
				Portugal
			two vertical bands of green (hoist side, two-fifths) and red (three-fifths) with the Portuguese coat of arms centered on the dividing line 
				Puerto Rico
			five equal horizontal bands of red (top and bottom) alternating with white; a blue isosceles triangle based on the hoist side bears a large, white, five-pointed star in the center; design initially influenced by the US flag, but similar to the Cuban flag, with the colors of the bands and triangle reversed 
				Qatar
			maroon with a broad white serrated band (nine white points) on the hoist side 
				Romania
			three equal vertical bands of blue (hoist side), yellow, and red; the national coat of arms that used to be centered in the yellow band has been removed; now similar to the flag of Chad, also resembles the flags of Andorra and Moldova 
				Russia
			three equal horizontal bands of white (top), blue, and red 
				Rwanda
			three horizontal bands of sky blue (top, double width), yellow, and green, with a golden sun with 24 rays near the fly end of the blue band 
				Saint Barthelemy
			the flag of France is used 
				Saint Helena
			blue with the flag of the UK in the upper hoist-side quadrant and the Saint Helenian shield centered on the outer half of the flag; the shield features a rocky coastline and three-masted sailing ship 
				Saint Kitts and Nevis
			divided diagonally from the lower hoist side by a broad black band bearing two white, five-pointed stars; the black band is edged in yellow; the upper triangle is green, the lower triangle is red 
				Saint Lucia
			blue, with a gold isosceles triangle below a black arrowhead; the upper edges of the arrowhead have a white border 
				Saint Martin
			the flag of France is used 
				Saint Pierre and Miquelon
			a yellow sailing ship facing the hoist side rides on a dark blue background with yellow wavy lines under the ship; on the hoist side, a vertical band is divided into three parts: the top part (called ikkurina) is red with a green diagonal cross extending to the corners overlaid by a white cross dividing the rectangle into four sections; the middle part has a white background with an ermine pattern; the third part has a red background with two stylized yellow lions outlined in black, one above the other; these three heraldic arms represent settlement by colonists from the Basque Country (top), Brittany, and Normandy; the flag of France is used for official occasions 
				Saint Vincent and the Grenadines
			three vertical bands of blue (hoist side), gold (double width), and green; the gold band bears three green diamonds arranged in a V pattern 
				Samoa
			red with a blue rectangle in the upper hoist-side quadrant bearing five white five-pointed stars representing the Southern Cross constellation 
				San Marino
			two equal horizontal bands of white (top) and light blue with the national coat of arms superimposed in the center; the coat of arms has a shield (featuring three towers on three peaks) flanked by a wreath, below a crown and above a scroll bearing the word LIBERTAS (Liberty) 
				Sao Tome and Principe
			three horizontal bands of green (top), yellow (double width), and green with two black five-pointed stars placed side by side in the center of the yellow band and a red isosceles triangle based on the hoist side; uses the popular pan-African colors of Ethiopia 
				Saudi Arabia
			green, a traditional color in Islamic flags, with the Shahada or Muslim creed in large white Arabic script (translated as "There is no god but God; Muhammad is the Messenger of God") above a white horizontal saber (the tip points to the hoist side); design dates to the early twentieth century and is closely associated with the Al Saud family which established the kingdom in 1932 
				Senegal
			three equal vertical bands of green (hoist side), yellow, and red with a small green five-pointed star centered in the yellow band; uses the popular pan-African colors of Ethiopia 
				Serbia
			three equal horizontal stripes of red (top), blue, and white; charged with the coat of arms of Serbia shifted slightly to the hoist side 
				Seychelles
			five oblique bands of blue (hoist side), yellow, red, white, and green (bottom) radiating from the bottom of the hoist side 
				Sierra Leone
			three equal horizontal bands of light green (top), white, and light blue 
				Singapore
			two equal horizontal bands of red (top) and white; near the hoist side of the red band, there is a vertical, white crescent (closed portion is toward the hoist side) partially enclosing five white five-pointed stars arranged in a circle 
				Slovakia
			three equal horizontal bands of white (top), blue, and red superimposed with the coat of arms of Slovakia (consisting of a red shield bordered in white and bearing a white Cross of Lorraine surmounting three blue hills); the coat of arms is centered vertically and offset slightly to the hoist side 
				Slovenia
			three equal horizontal bands of white (top), blue, and red, with the Slovenian seal (a shield with the image of Triglav, Slovenia's highest peak, in white against a blue background at the center; beneath it are two wavy blue lines depicting seas and rivers, and above it are three six-pointed stars arranged in an inverted triangle, which are taken from the coat of arms of the Counts of Celje, the great Slovene dynastic house of the late 14th and early 15th centuries); the seal is in the upper hoist side of the flag centered on the white and blue bands 
				Solomon Islands
			divided diagonally by a thin yellow stripe from the lower hoist-side corner; the upper triangle (hoist side) is blue with five white five-pointed stars arranged in an X pattern; the lower triangle is green 
				Somalia
			light blue with a large white five-pointed star in the center; blue field influenced by the flag of the UN 
				South Africa
			two equal width horizontal bands of red (top) and blue separated by a central green band that splits into a horizontal Y, the arms of which end at the corners of the hoist side; the Y embraces a black isosceles triangle from which the arms are separated by narrow yellow bands; the red and blue bands are separated from the green band and its arms by narrow white stripes 
				South Georgia and the South Sandwich Islands
			blue, with the flag of the UK in the upper hoist-side quadrant and the South Georgia and the South Sandwich Islands coat of arms centered on the outer half of the flag; the coat of arms features a shield with a golden lion centered; the shield is supported by a fur seal on the left and a penguin on the right; a reindeer appears above the shield, and below it on a scroll is the motto LEO TERRAM PROPRIAM PROTEGAT (Let the Lion Protect its Own Land) 
				Spain
			three horizontal bands of red (top), yellow (double width), and red with the national coat of arms on the hoist side of the yellow band; the coat of arms is quartered to display the emblems of the traditional kingdoms of Spain (clockwise from upper left, Castile, Leon, Navarre, and Aragon) while Granada is represented by the stylized pomegranate at the bottom of the shield; the arms are framed by two columns representing the Pillars of Hercules, which are the two promontories (Gibraltar and Ceuta) on either side of the eastern end of the Strait of Gibraltar; the red scroll across the two columns bears the imperial motto of "Plus Ultra" (further beyond) referring to Spanish lands beyond Europe 
				Sri Lanka
			yellow with two panels; the smaller hoist-side panel has two equal vertical bands of green (hoist side) and orange; the other panel is a large dark red rectangle with a yellow lion holding a sword, and there is a yellow bo leaf in each corner; the yellow field appears as a border around the entire flag and extends between the two panels 
				Sudan
			three equal horizontal bands of red (top), white, and black with a green isosceles triangle based on the hoist side 
				Suriname
			five horizontal bands of green (top, double width), white, red (quadruple width), white, and green (double width); there is a large, yellow, five-pointed star centered in the red band 
				Svalbard
			the flag of Norway is used 
				Swaziland
			three horizontal bands of blue (top), red (triple width), and blue; the red band is edged in yellow; centered in the red band is a large black and white shield covering two spears and a staff decorated with feather tassels, all placed horizontally 
				Sweden
			blue with a golden yellow cross extending to the edges of the flag; the vertical part of the cross is shifted to the hoist side in the style of the Dannebrog (Danish flag) 
				Switzerland
			red square with a bold, equilateral white cross in the center that does not extend to the edges of the flag 
				Syria
			three equal horizontal bands of red (top), white, and black, colors associated with the Arab Liberation flag; two small, green, five-pointed stars in a horizontal line centered in the white band; former flag of the United Arab Republic where the two stars represented the constituent states of Syria and Egypt; similar to the flag of Yemen, which has a plain white band, Iraq, which has an Arabic inscription centered in the white band, and that of Egypt, which has a gold Eagle of Saladin centered in the white band; the current design dates to 1980 
				Taiwan
			red field with a dark blue rectangle in the upper hoist-side corner bearing a white sun with 12 triangular rays 
				Tajikistan
			three horizontal stripes of red (top), a wider stripe of white, and green; a gold crown surmounted by seven gold, five-pointed stars is located in the center of the white stripe 
				Tanzania
			divided diagonally by a yellow-edged black band from the lower hoist-side corner; the upper triangle (hoist side) is green and the lower triangle is blue 
				Thailand
			five horizontal bands of red (top), white, blue (double width), white, and red 
				Timor-Leste
			red, with a black isosceles triangle (based on the hoist side) superimposed on a slightly longer yellow arrowhead that extends to the center of the flag; a white star is in the center of the black triangle 
				Togo
			five equal horizontal bands of green (top and bottom) alternating with yellow; a white five-pointed star on a red square is in the upper hoist-side corner; uses the popular pan-African colors of Ethiopia 
				Tokelau
			the flag of New Zealand is used 
				Tonga
			red with a bold red cross on a white rectangle in the upper hoist-side corner 
				Trinidad and Tobago
			red with a white-edged black diagonal band from the upper hoist side to the lower fly side 
				Tunisia
			red with a white disk in the center bearing a red crescent nearly encircling a red five-pointed star; the crescent and star are traditional symbols of Islam 
				Turkey
			red with a vertical white crescent (the closed portion is toward the hoist side) and white five-pointed star centered just outside the crescent opening 
				Turkmenistan
			green field with a vertical red stripe near the hoist side, containing five tribal guls (designs used in producing carpets) stacked above two crossed olive branches; a white crescent moon representing Islam with five white stars representing the regions or welayats of Turkmenistan appear in the upper corner of the field just to the fly side of the red stripe 
				Turks and Caicos Islands
			blue, with the flag of the UK in the upper hoist-side quadrant and the colonial shield centered on the outer half of the flag; the shield is yellow and contains a conch shell, lobster, and cactus 
				Tuvalu
			light blue with the flag of the UK in the upper hoist-side quadrant; the outer half of the flag represents a map of the country with nine yellow five-pointed stars symbolizing the nine islands 
				Uganda
			six equal horizontal bands of black (top), yellow, red, black, yellow, and red; a white disk is superimposed at the center and depicts a red-crested crane (the national symbol) facing the hoist side 
				Ukraine
			two equal horizontal bands of azure (top) and golden yellow represent grain fields under a blue sky 
				United Arab Emirates
			three equal horizontal bands of green (top), white, and black with a wider vertical red band on the hoist side 
				United Kingdom
			blue field with the red cross of Saint George (patron saint of England) edged in white superimposed on the diagonal red cross of Saint Patrick (patron saint of Ireland), which is superimposed on the diagonal white cross of Saint Andrew (patron saint of Scotland); properly known as the Union Flag, but commonly called the Union Jack; the design and colors (especially the Blue Ensign) have been the basis for a number of other flags including other Commonwealth countries and their constituent states or provinces, and British overseas territories 
				United States
			13 equal horizontal stripes of red (top and bottom) alternating with white; there is a blue rectangle in the upper hoist-side corner bearing 50 small, white, five-pointed stars arranged in nine offset horizontal rows of six stars (top and bottom) alternating with rows of five stars; the 50 stars represent the 50 states, the 13 stripes represent the 13 original colonies; known as Old Glory; the design and colors have been the basis for a number of other flags, including Chile, Liberia, Malaysia, and Puerto Rico 
				United States Pacific Island Wildlife Refuges
			the flag of the US is used 
				Uruguay
			nine equal horizontal stripes of white (top and bottom) alternating with blue; a white square in the upper hoist-side corner with a yellow sun bearing a human face known as the Sun of May with 16 rays that alternate between triangular and wavy 
				Uzbekistan
			three equal horizontal bands of blue (top), white, and green separated by red fimbriations with a white crescent moon and 12 white stars in the upper hoist-side quadrant 
				Vanuatu
			two equal horizontal bands of red (top) and green with a black isosceles triangle (based on the hoist side) all separated by a black-edged yellow stripe in the shape of a horizontal Y (the two points of the Y face the hoist side and enclose the triangle); centered in the triangle is a boar's tusk encircling two crossed namele leaves, all in yellow 
				Venezuela
			three equal horizontal bands of yellow (top), blue, and red with the coat of arms on the hoist side of the yellow band and an arc of eight white five-pointed stars centered in the blue band 
				Vietnam
			red field with a large yellow five-pointed star in the center 
				Virgin Islands
			white field with a modified US coat of arms in the center between the large blue initials V and I; the coat of arms shows a yellow eagle holding an olive branch in one talon and three arrows in the other with a superimposed shield of vertical red and white stripes below a blue panel 
				Wake Island
			the flag of the US is used 
				Wallis and Futuna
			unofficial, local flag has a red field with four white isosceles triangles in the middle, representing the three native kings of the islands and the French administrator; the apexes of the triangles are oriented inward and at right angles to each other; the flag of France, outlined in white on two sides, is in the upper hoist quadrant; the flag of France is the only official flag 
				Yemen
			three equal horizontal bands of red (top), white, and black; similar to the flag of Syria, which has two green stars in the white band, and of Iraq, which has an Arabic inscription centered in the white band; also similar to the flag of Egypt, which has a heraldic eagle centered in the white band 
				Zambia
			green field with a panel of three vertical bands of red (hoist side), black, and orange below a soaring orange eagle, on the outer edge of the flag 
				Zimbabwe
			seven equal horizontal bands of green, yellow, red, black, red, yellow, and green with a white isosceles triangle edged in black with its base on the hoist side; a yellow Zimbabwe bird representing the long history of the country is superimposed on a red five-pointed star in the center of the triangle, which symbolizes peace; green symbolizes agriculture, yellow - mineral wealth, red - blood shed to achieve independence, and black stands for the native people  		
				This page was last updated on 19 March 2009
&nbsp; 
CIA - The World Factbook -- Field Listing - Current account balance
&nbsp; 
				    &nbsp; 
                    Field Listing - Current account balance
         Home 
          &nbsp;Reference Maps 
          &nbsp;Appendixes 
          		&nbsp;Rank Order List
			Country
			Current account balance 	
				Afghanistan
			$NA 
				Albania
			-$1.639 billion (2008 est.) 
				Algeria
			$35.8 billion (2008 est.) 
				Angola
			$21.01 billion (2008 est.) 
				Anguilla
			-$42.87 million (2003 est.) 
				Antigua and Barbuda
			-$211 million (2007 est.) 
				Argentina
			$6 billion (2008 est.) 
				Armenia
			-$877 million (2008 est.) 
				Australia
			-$43.84 billion (2008 est.) 
				Austria
			$10.63 billion (2008 est.) 
				Azerbaijan
			$19.36 billion (2008 est.) 
				Bahamas, The
			-$1.442 billion (2007 est.) 
				Bahrain
			$2.269 billion (2008 est.) 
				Bangladesh
			-$55 million (2008 est.) 
				Barbados
			-$254 million (2007 est.) 
				Belarus
			-$3.832 billion (2008 est.) 
				Belgium
			$3.972 billion (2008 est.) 
				Belize
			-$32 million (2008 est.) 
				Benin
			-$485 million (2008 est.) 
				Bhutan
			$116 million (2007 est.) 
				Bolivia
			$1.789 billion (2008 est.) 
				Bosnia and Herzegovina
			-$2.85 billion (2008 est.) 
				Botswana
			$1.611 billion (2008 est.) 
				Brazil
			-$27.33 billion (2008 est.) 
				British Virgin Islands
			$134.3 million (1999) 
				Brunei
			$7.101 billion (2007 est.) 
				Bulgaria
			-$12.11 billion (2008) 
				Burkina Faso
			-$908 million (2008 est.) 
				Burma
			$762 million (2008 est.) 
				Burundi
			-$120 million (2008 est.) 
				Cambodia
			-$1.27 billion (2008 est.) 
				Cameroon
			$377 million (2008 est.) 
				Canada
			$12.82 billion (2008 est.) 
				Cape Verde
			-$167 million (2008 est.) 
				Central African Republic
			-$77 million (2007 est.) 
				Chad
			$527 million (2008 est.) 
				Chile
			-$1.574 billion (2008 est.) 
				China
			$368.2 billion (2008 est.) 
				Colombia
			-$5.592 billion (2008 est.) 
				Comoros
			$8 million (2007 est.) 
				Congo, Democratic Republic of the
			-$402 million (2007 est.) 
				Congo, Republic of the
			$406 million (2008 est.) 
				Cook Islands
			$26.67 million (2005) 
				Costa Rica
			-$5.698 billion (2008 est.) 
				Cote d'Ivoire
			$407 million (2008 est.) 
				Croatia
			-$6.156 billion (2008 est.) 
				Cuba
			-$330 million (2008 est.) 
				Cyprus
			-$2.609 billion (2008 est.) 
				Czech Republic
			-$6.46 billion (2008 est.) 
				Denmark
			$4.333 billion (2008 est.) 
				Djibouti
			-$212 million (2007 est.) 
				Dominica
			-$72 million (2007 est.) 
				Dominican Republic
			-$4.23 billion (2008 est.) 
				Ecuador
			$2.008 billion (2008 est.) 
				Egypt
			$1.483 billion (2008 est.) 
				El Salvador
			-$1.119 billion (2008 est.) 
				Equatorial Guinea
			$1.837 billion (2008 est.) 
				Eritrea
			-$247 million (2008 est.) 
				Estonia
			-$3.037 billion (2008 est.) 
				Ethiopia
			-$1.609 billion (2008 est.) 
				European Union
			$NA 
				Fiji
			-$507 million (2007 est.) 
				Finland
			$10.29 billion (2008) 
				France
			-$58 billion (2008 est.) 
				Gabon
			$2.026 billion (2008 est.) 
				Gambia, The
			-$116 million (2008 est.) 
				Georgia
			-$3.334 billion (2008 est.) 
				Germany
			$267.1 billion (2008 est.) 
				Ghana
			-$1.807 billion (2008 est.) 
				Greece
			-$36.26 billion (2008 est.) 
				Grenada
			-$138 million (2007 est.) 
				Guatemala
			-$3.316 billion (2008 est.) 
				Guinea
			-$535 million (2008 est.) 
				Guinea-Bissau
			-$6 million (2007 est.) 
				Guyana
			-$246 million (2008 est.) 
				Haiti
			-$664 million (2008 est.) 
				Honduras
			-$2.047 billion (2008 est.) 
				Hong Kong
			$22.44 billion (2008 est.) 
				Hungary
			-$6.89 billion (2008 est.) 
				Iceland
			-$3.257 billion (2008 est.) 
				India
			-$38.39 billion (2008 est.) 
				Indonesia
			$2.485 billion (2008 est.) 
				Iran
			$27.47 billion (2008 est.) 
				Iraq
			$22.6 billion (2008 est.) 
				Ireland
			-$8.621 billion (2008 est.) 
				Israel
			$1.893 billion (2008 est.) 
				Italy
			-$68.82 billion (2008 est.) 
				Jamaica
			-$2.448 billion (2008 est.) 
				Japan
			$187.8 billion (2008 est.) 
				Jordan
			-$4.87 billion (2008 est.) 
				Kazakhstan
			$326 million (2008 est.) 
				Kenya
			-$1.859 billion (2008 est.) 
				Kiribati
			-$21 million (2007 est.) 
				Korea, South
			-$6.41 billion (2008) 
				Kosovo
			-$964 million (2007) 
				Kuwait
			$65.21 billion (2008 est.) 
				Kyrgyzstan
			-$574 million (2008 est.) 
				Laos
			-$37 million (2008 est.) 
				Latvia
			-$2.1 billion (2008 est.) 
				Lebanon
			-$4.344 billion (2008 est.) 
				Lesotho
			$666 million (2008 est.) 
				Liberia
			-$224 million (2007) 
				Libya
			$43.33 billion (2008 est.) 
				Lithuania
			-$6.775 billion (2008 est.) 
				Luxembourg
			$3.186 billion (2008 est.) 
				Macedonia
			-$740 million (2008 est.) 
				Madagascar
			-$1.088 billion (2008 est.) 
				Malawi
			-$420 million (2008 est.) 
				Malaysia
			$27.44 billion (2008 est.) 
				Maldives
			-$472 million (2007) 
				Mali
			-$446 million (2007 est.) 
				Malta
			-$538 million (2008 est.) 
				Mauritania
			-$184 million (2007 est.) 
				Mauritius
			-$982 million (2008 est.) 
				Mexico
			-$13.45 billion (2008 est.) 
				Micronesia, Federated States of
			-$34.3 million (FY05 est.) 
				Moldova
			-$903 million (2008 est.) 
				Mongolia
			-$23 million (2007 est.) 
				Montenegro
			$NA 
				Morocco
			-$1.667 billion (2008 est.) 
				Mozambique
			-$981 million (2008 est.) 
				Namibia
			$326 million (2008 est.) 
				Nepal
			$58 million (2007) 
				Netherlands
			$47 billion (2008 est.) 
				New Zealand
			-$9.047 billion (2008 est.) 
				Nicaragua
			-$1.31 billion (2008 est.) 
				Niger
			-$321 million (2007 est.) 
				Nigeria
			$7.722 billion (2008 est.) 
				Norway
			$84.35 billion (2008 est.) 
				Oman
			$5.669 billion (2008 est.) 
				Pakistan
			-$10.57 billion (2008 est.) 
				Palau
			$15.09 million (FY03/04) 
				Panama
			-$2.536 billion (2008 est.) 
				Papua New Guinea
			$438 million (2008 est.) 
				Paraguay
			$178 million (2008 est.) 
				Peru
			-$3.631 billion (2008 est.) 
				Philippines
			$2.687 billion (2008 est.) 
				Poland
			-$29.51 billion (2008 est.) 
				Portugal
			-$23.97 billion (2008 est.) 
				Qatar
			$22.71 billion (2008 est.) 
				Romania
			-$28.03 billion (2008 est.) 
				Russia
			$97.6 billion (2008 est.) 
				Rwanda
			-$220 million (2008 est.) 
				Saint Kitts and Nevis
			-$163 million (2007 est.) 
				Saint Lucia
			-$199 million (2007 est.) 
				Saint Vincent and the Grenadines
			-$149 million (2007 est.) 
				Samoa
			-$24 million (2007 est.) 
				Sao Tome and Principe
			-$71 million (2008 est.) 
				Saudi Arabia
			$151 billion (2008 est.) 
				Senegal
			-$2.078 billion (2008 est.) 
				Serbia
			-$6.889 billion (2007 est.) 
				Seychelles
			-$307 million (2008 est.) 
				Sierra Leone
			-$63 million (2007 est.) 
				Singapore
			$28.42 billion (2008 est.) 
				Slovakia
			-$5.359 billion (2008 est.) 
				Slovenia
			-$3.706 billion (2008 est.) 
				Solomon Islands
			-$143 million (2007 est.) 
				South Africa
			-$21.67 billion (2008 est.) 
				Spain
			-$152.5 billion (2008 est.) 
				Sri Lanka
			-$1.981 billion (2008 est.) 
				Sudan
			-$952 million (2008 est.) 
				Suriname
			$24 million (2007 est.) 
				Swaziland
			-$10 million (2008 est.) 
				Sweden
			$35.22 billion (2008 est.) 
				Switzerland
			$40.81 billion (2008 est.) 
				Syria
			-$192 million (2008 est.) 
				Taiwan
			$25 billion (2008 est.) 
				Tajikistan
			-$584 million (2008 est.) 
				Tanzania
			-$2.275 billion (2008 est.) 
				Thailand
			-$1.049 billion (2008 est.) 
				Timor-Leste
			$1.161 billion (2007 est.) 
				Togo
			-$433 million (2008 est.) 
				Tonga
			-$23 million (2007 est.) 
				Trinidad and Tobago
			$5.721 billion (2008 est.) 
				Tunisia
			-$993 million (2008 est.) 
				Turkey
			-$51.68 billion (2008 est.) 
				Turkmenistan
			$2.897 billion (2008 est.) 
				Tuvalu
			-$11.68 million (2003) 
				Uganda
			-$933 million (2008 est.) 
				Ukraine
			-$14.22 billion (2008 est.) 
				United Arab Emirates
			$36.41 billion (2008 est.) 
				United Kingdom
			-$72.54 billion (2008 est.) 
				United States
			-$568.8 billion (2008 est.) 
				Uruguay
			-$1 billion (2008 est.) 
				Uzbekistan
			$5.726 billion (2008 est.) 
				Vanuatu
			-$60 million (2007 est.) 
				Venezuela
			$48.44 billion (2008 est.) 
				Vietnam
			-$12.74 billion (2008 est.) 
				Yemen
			-$2.175 billion (2008 est.) 
				Zambia
			-$478 million (2008 est.) 
				Zimbabwe
			-$597 million (2008 est.)  		
				This page was last updated on 19 March 2009
&nbsp; 
CIA - The World Factbook -- Field Listing - Electricity - exports
&nbsp; 
				    &nbsp; 
                    Field Listing - Electricity - exports
         Home 
          &nbsp;Reference Maps 
          &nbsp;Appendixes 
			Country
			Electricity - exports (kWh) 
				Afghanistan
			0 kWh (2007 est.) 
				Albania
			0 kWh (2007 est.) 
				Algeria
			300 million kWh (2006 est.) 
				American Samoa
			0 kWh (2007 est.) 
				Andorra
			NA kWh 
				Angola
			0 kWh (2007 est.) 
				Antigua and Barbuda
			0 kWh (2007 est.) 
				Argentina
			2.628 billion kWh (2007 est.) 
				Armenia
			322.6 million kWh; note - exports an unknown quantity to Georgia; includes exports to Nagorno-Karabakh region in Azerbaijan (2007 est.) 
				Aruba
			0 kWh (2007 est.) 
				Australia
			0 kWh (2007 est.) 
				Austria
			18.47 billion kWh (2007 est.) 
				Azerbaijan
			800 million kWh (2007 est.) 
				Bahamas, The
			0 kWh (2007 est.) 
				Bahrain
			0 kWh (2007 est.) 
				Bangladesh
			0 kWh (2007 est.) 
				Barbados
			0 kWh (2007 est.) 
				Belarus
			5.789 billion kWh (2006 est.) 
				Belgium
			9.035 billion kWh (2007 est.) 
				Belize
			0 kWh (2007 est.) 
				Benin
			0 kWh (2007 est.) 
				Bermuda
			0 kWh (2007 est.) 
				Bhutan
			3.644 billion kWh (2007 est.) 
				Bolivia
			0 kWh (2007 est.) 
				Bosnia and Herzegovina
			5.123 billion kWh (2006 est.) 
				Botswana
			0 kWh (2007 est.) 
				Brazil
			2.034 billion kWh (2007 est.) 
				British Virgin Islands
			0 kWh (2007 est.) 
				Brunei
			0 kWh (2007 est.) 
				Bulgaria
			7.992 billion kWh (2007 est.) 
				Burkina Faso
			0 kWh (2007 est.) 
				Burma
			0 kWh (2007 est.) 
				Burundi
			0 kWh (2007 est.) 
				Cambodia
			0 kWh (2007 est.) 
				Cameroon
			0 kWh (2007 est.) 
				Canada
			50.12 billion kWh (2007 est.) 
				Cape Verde
			0 kWh (2007 est.) 
				Cayman Islands
			0 kWh (2007 est.) 
				Central African Republic
			0 kWh (2007 est.) 
				Chad
			0 kWh (2007 est.) 
				Chile
			0 kWh (2007 est.) 
				China
			14.56 billion kWh (2007 est.) 
				Colombia
			876.7 million kWh (2007) 
				Comoros
			0 kWh (2007 est.) 
				Congo, Democratic Republic of the
			1.799 billion kWh (2006 est.) 
				Congo, Republic of the
			0 kWh (2007 est.) 
				Cook Islands
			0 kWh (2007 est.) 
				Costa Rica
			77.16 million kWh (2008 est.) 
				Cote d'Ivoire
			1.066 billion kWh (2006 est.) 
				Croatia
			1.451 billion kWh (2007) 
				Cuba
			0 kWh (2007 est.) 
				Cyprus
			0 kWh (2007 est.) 
				Czech Republic
			26.36 billion kWh (2007 est.) 
				Denmark
			11.38 billion kWh (2007 est.) 
				Djibouti
			0 kWh (2007 est.) 
				Dominica
			0 kWh (2007 est.) 
				Dominican Republic
			0 kWh (2007 est.) 
				Ecuador
			38.53 million kWh (2006 est.) 
				Egypt
			557 million kWh (2006 est.) 
				El Salvador
			8.64 million kWh (2007 est.) 
				Equatorial Guinea
			0 kWh (2007 est.) 
				Eritrea
			0 kWh (2007 est.) 
				Estonia
			2.765 billion kWh (2007) 
				Ethiopia
			0 kWh (2007 est.) 
				European Union
			NA kWh 
				Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas)
			0 kWh (2007 est.) 
				Faroe Islands
			0 kWh (2007 est.) 
				Fiji
			0 kWh (2007 est.) 
				Finland
			3.2 billion kWh (2008) 
				France
			67.6 billion kWh (2007) 
				French Polynesia
			0 kWh (2007 est.) 
				Gabon
			0 kWh (2007 est.) 
				Gambia, The
			0 kWh (2007 est.) 
				Gaza Strip
			0 kWh (2008) 
				Georgia
			635 million kWh (2007 est.) 
				Germany
			62.31 billion kWh (2007 est.) 
				Ghana
			755 million kWh (2006 est.) 
				Gibraltar
			0 kWh (2007 est.) 
				Greece
			269 million kWh (2007 est.) 
				Greenland
			0 kWh (2007 est.) 
				Grenada
			0 kWh (2007 est.) 
				Guam
			0 kWh (2007 est.) 
				Guatemala
			131.9 million kWh (2007 est.) 
				Guernsey
			0 kWh (2002) 
				Guinea
			0 kWh (2007 est.) 
				Guinea-Bissau
			0 kWh (2007 est.) 
				Guyana
			0 kWh (2007 est.) 
				Haiti
			0 kWh (2007 est.) 
				Honduras
			0 kWh (2007 est.) 
				Hong Kong
			3.7 billion kWh (2008 est.) 
				Hungary
			10.69 billion kWh (2007 est.) 
				Iceland
			0 kWh (2007 est.) 
				India
			378 million kWh (2006 est.) 
				Indonesia
			0 kWh (2007 est.) 
				Iran
			2.775 billion kWh (2006 est.) 
				Iraq
			0 kWh (2008) 
				Ireland
			82 million kWh (2007 est.) 
				Israel
			1.844 billion kWh (2006 est.) 
				Italy
			1.916 billion kWh (2007 est.) 
				Jamaica
			0 kWh (2007 est.) 
				Japan
			0 kWh (2007 est.) 
				Jordan
			13 million kWh (2006 est.) 
				Kazakhstan
			3.528 billion kWh (2007 est.) 
				Kenya
			58.3 million kWh (2007 est.) 
				Kiribati
			0 kWh (2007 est.) 
				Korea, North
			0 kWh (2007 est.) 
				Korea, South
			0 kWh (2008 est.) 
				Kuwait
			0 kWh (2007 est.) 
				Kyrgyzstan
			2.387 billion kWh (2007 est.) 
				Laos
			547 million kWh (2006 est.) 
				Latvia
			1.676 billion kWh (2007 est.) 
				Lebanon
			0 kWh (2007 est.) 
				Lesotho
			0 kWh (2007 est.) 
				Liberia
			0 kWh (2007 est.) 
				Libya
			0 kWh (2007 est.) 
				Lithuania
			7.217 billion kWh (2007 est.) 
				Luxembourg
			2.887 billion kWh (2007 est.) 
				Macau
			0 kWh (2008 est.) 
				Macedonia
			0 kWh (2007 est.) 
				Madagascar
			0 kWh (2007 est.) 
				Malawi
			0 kWh (2007 est.) 
				Malaysia
			2.524 billion kWh (2006 est.) 
				Maldives
			0 kWh (2007 est.) 
				Mali
			0 kWh; note - recent hydropower developments may be providing electricity to Senegal and Mauritania (2007 est.) 
				Malta
			0 kWh (2007 est.) 
				Mauritania
			0 kWh (2007 est.) 
				Mauritius
			0 kWh (2007 est.) 
				Mexico
			1.278 billion kWh (2007 est.) 
				Micronesia, Federated States of
			0 kWh (2002) 
				Moldova
			229 million kWh (2006 est.) 
				Mongolia
			0 kWh (2007 est.) 
				Montenegro
			0 kWh (2005) 
				Montserrat
			0 kWh (2007 est.) 
				Morocco
			0 kWh (2007 est.) 
				Mozambique
			12.83 billion kWh (2006 est.) 
				Namibia
			40 million kWh (2007 est.) 
				Nauru
			0 kWh (2007 est.) 
				Nepal
			165 million kWh (2007 est.) 
				Netherlands
			5.48 billion kWh (2007) 
				Netherlands Antilles
			0 kWh (2007 est.) 
				New Caledonia
			0 kWh (2007 est.) 
				New Zealand
			0 kWh (2007 est.) 
				Nicaragua
			0 kWh (2007 est.) 
				Niger
			0 kWh (2007 est.) 
				Nigeria
			0 kWh (2007 est.) 
				Niue
			0 kWh (2007 est.) 
				Northern Mariana Islands
			0 kWh (January 2009 est.) 
				Norway
			17.3 billion kWh (2008 est.) 
				Oman
			0 kWh (2007 est.) 
				Pakistan
			0 kWh (2007 est.) 
				Panama
			124.9 million kWh (2007 est.) 
				Papua New Guinea
			0 kWh (2007 est.) 
				Paraguay
			64 billion kWh (2007) 
				Peru
			0 kWh (2008 est.) 
				Philippines
			0 kWh (2007) 
				Poland
			13.11 billion kWh (2007) 
				Portugal
			1.906 billion kWh (2007 est.) 
				Puerto Rico
			0 kWh (2007 est.) 
				Qatar
			0 kWh (2007 est.) 
				Romania
			3.362 billion kWh (2007 est.) 
				Russia
			18.6 billion kWh (2007 est.) 
				Rwanda
			10 million kWh (2007 est.) 
				Saint Helena
			0 kWh (2007 est.) 
				Saint Kitts and Nevis
			0 kWh (2007 est.) 
				Saint Lucia
			0 kWh (2007 est.) 
				Saint Pierre and Miquelon
			0 kWh (2007 est.) 
				Saint Vincent and the Grenadines
			0 kWh (2007 est.) 
				Samoa
			0 kWh (2007 est.) 
				Sao Tome and Principe
			0 kWh (2007) 
				Saudi Arabia
			0 kWh (2007 est.) 
				Senegal
			0 kWh (2007 est.) 
				Serbia
			12.05 billion kWh (2004 est.) 
				Seychelles
			0 kWh (2007 est.) 
				Sierra Leone
			0 kWh (2007 est.) 
				Singapore
			0 kWh (2007 est.) 
				Slovakia
			11.85 billion kWh (2007 est.) 
				Slovenia
			5.894 billion kWh (2007 est.) 
				Solomon Islands
			0 kWh (2007 est.) 
				Somalia
			0 kWh (2007 est.) 
				South Africa
			13.77 billion kWh (2006 est.) 
				Spain
			14.52 billion kWh (2007 est.) 
				Sri Lanka
			0 kWh (2008 est.) 
				Sudan
			0 kWh (2007 est.) 
				Suriname
			0 kWh (2007 est.) 
				Swaziland
			0 kWh (2007) 
				Sweden
			14.74 billion kWh (2007) 
				Switzerland
			50.2 billion kWh (2007 est.) 
				Syria
			991 million kWh (2007 est.) 
				Taiwan
			0 kWh (2008) 
				Tajikistan
			4.259 billion kWh (2007 est.) 
				Tanzania
			0 kWh (2007 est.) 
				Thailand
			731 million kWh (2007 est.) 
				Timor-Leste
			0 kWh (2007 est.) 
				Togo
			0 kWh (2007 est.) 
				Tonga
			0 kWh (2007) 
				Trinidad and Tobago
			0 kWh (2007 est.) 
				Tunisia
			135 million kWh (2006 est.) 
				Turkey
			2.576 billion kWh (2007 est.) 
				Turkmenistan
			1.34 billion kWh (2006 est.) 
				Turks and Caicos Islands
			0 kWh (2007 est.) 
				Uganda
			180 million kWh (2006) 
				Ukraine
			12.52 billion kWh (2006 est.) 
				United Arab Emirates
			0 kWh (2007 est.) 
				United Kingdom
			3.398 billion kWh (2007 est.) 
				United States
			20.14 billion kWh (2007 est.) 
				Uruguay
			995.4 million kWh (2007 est.) 
				Uzbekistan
			11.52 billion kWh (2006 est.) 
				Vanuatu
			0 kWh (2007 est.) 
				Venezuela
			542 million kWh (2006 est.) 
				Vietnam
			0 kWh (2007 est.) 
				Virgin Islands
			0 kWh (2007 est.) 
				Wallis and Futuna
			0 kWh (2002) 
				Western Sahara
			0 kWh (2007) 
				World
			674 billion kWh (2007 est.) 
				Yemen
			0 kWh (2007 est.) 
				Zambia
			255 million kWh (2006) 
				Zimbabwe
			34 million kWh (2006 est.)  		
				This page was last updated on 19 March 2009
&nbsp; 
CIA - The World Factbook -- Field Listing - Manpower reaching militarily significant age annually
&nbsp; 
				    &nbsp; 
                    Field Listing - Manpower reaching militarily significant age annually
         Home 
          &nbsp;Reference Maps 
          &nbsp;Appendixes 
			Country
			Manpower reaching militarily significant age annually 	
				Afghanistan
				male: 382,720 
				female: 361,733 (2009 est.) 
				Albania
				male: 34,778 
				female: 31,673 (2009 est.) 
				Algeria
				male: 375,852 
				female: 362,158 (2009 est.) 
				American Samoa
				male: 820 
				female: 802 (2009 est.) 
				Andorra
				male: 402 
				female: 373 (2009 est.) 
				Angola
				male: 146,738 
				female: 143,478 (2009 est.) 
				Anguilla
				male: 107 
				female: 106 (2009 est.) 
				Antigua and Barbuda
				male: 744 
				female: 743 (2009 est.) 
				Argentina
				male: 341,590 
				female: 326,342 (2009 est.) 
				Armenia
				male: 27,293 
				female: 25,574 (2009 est.) 
				Aruba
				male: 722 
				female: 711 (2009 est.) 
				Australia
				male: 144,959 
				female: 137,333 (2009 est.) 
				Austria
				male: 50,540 
				female: 48,042 (2009 est.) 
				Azerbaijan
				male: 90,416 
				female: 85,344 (2009 est.) 
				Bahamas, The
				male: 2,992 
				female: 3,003 (2009 est.) 
				Bahrain
				male: 6,612 
				female: 6,499 (2009 est.) 
				Bangladesh
				male: 1,538,865 
				female: 1,666,670 (2009 est.) 
				Barbados
				male: 2,015 
				female: 2,007 (2009 est.) 
				Belarus
				male: 60,009 
				female: 56,834 (2009 est.) 
				Belgium
				male: 62,722 
				female: 59,969 (2009 est.) 
				Belize
				male: 3,632 
				female: 3,500 (2009 est.) 
				Benin
				male: 101,549 
				female: 97,856 (2009 est.) 
				Bermuda
				male: 426 
				female: 413 (2009 est.) 
				Bhutan
				male: 7,668 
				female: 7,379 (2009 est.) 
				Bolivia
				male: 108,304 
				female: 104,882 (2009 est.) 
				Bosnia and Herzegovina
				male: 27,368 
				female: 25,644 (2009 est.) 
				Botswana
				male: 23,420 
				female: 22,904 (2009 est.) 
				Brazil
				male: 1,690,031 
				female: 1,630,851 (2009 est.) 
				British Virgin Islands
				male: 178 
				female: 173 (2009 est.) 
				Brunei
				male: 3,460 
				female: 3,399 (2009 est.) 
				Bulgaria
				male: 38,263 
				female: 36,374 (2009 est.) 
				Burkina Faso
				male: 182,540 
				female: 180,051 (2009 est.) 
				Burma
				male: 426,110 
				female: 417,674 (2009 est.) 
				Burundi
				male: 101,402 
				female: 101,897 (2009 est.) 
				Cambodia
				male: 177,881 
				female: 175,332 (2009 est.) 
				Cameroon
				male: 213,027 
				female: 208,642 (2009 est.) 
				Canada
				male: 223,238 
				female: 210,797 (2009 est.) 
				Cape Verde
				male: 5,471 
				female: 5,349 (2009 est.) 
				Cayman Islands
				male: 334 
				female: 345 (2009 est.) 
				Central African Republic
				male: 55,484 
				female: 55,168 (2009 est.) 
				Chad
				male: 121,080 
				female: 121,585 (2009 est.) 
				Chile
				male: 145,766 
				female: 139,648 (2009 est.) 
				China
				male: 10,621,373 
				female: 9,533,880 (2009 est.) 
				Colombia
				male: 446,432 
				female: 437,164 (2009 est.) 
				Comoros
				male: 8,203 
				female: 8,188 (2009 est.) 
				Congo, Democratic Republic of the
				male: 814,199 
				female: 811,238 (2009 est.) 
				Congo, Republic of the
				male: 46,976 
				female: 46,490 (2009 est.) 
				Cook Islands
				male: 148 
				female: 125 (2009 est.) 
				Costa Rica
				male: 40,698 
				female: 38,808 (2009 est.) 
				Cote d'Ivoire
				male: 236,159 
				female: 232,617 (2009 est.) 
				Croatia
				male: 27,620 
				female: 26,154 (2009 est.) 
				Cuba
				male: 75,969 
				female: 72,253 (2009 est.) 
				Cyprus
				male: 6,241 
				female: 5,979 (2009 est.) 
				Czech Republic
				male: 60,150 
				female: 57,157 (2009 est.) 
				Denmark
				male: 37,231 
				female: 35,306 (2009 est.) 
				Djibouti
				male: 5,778 
				female: 5,771 (2009 est.) 
				Dominica
				male: 776 
				female: 731 (2009 est.) 
				Dominican Republic
				male: 97,766 
				female: 93,922 (2009 est.) 
				Ecuador
				male: 148,010 
				female: 143,291 (2009 est.) 
				Egypt
				male: 831,157 
				female: 792,330 (2009 est.) 
				El Salvador
				male: 77,473 
				female: 74,655 (2009 est.) 
				Equatorial Guinea
				male: 6,983 
				female: 6,726 (2009 est.) 
				Eritrea
				male: 62,265 
				female: 62,328 (2009 est.) 
				Estonia
				male: 7,583 
				female: 7,111 (2009 est.) 
				Ethiopia
				male: 908,384 
				female: 916,354 (2009 est.) 
				Faroe Islands
				male: 386 
				female: 375 (2009 est.) 
				Fiji
				male: 9,107 
				female: 8,755 (2009 est.) 
				Finland
				male: 33,784 
				female: 32,621 (2009 est.) 
				France
				male: 391,480 
				female: 373,334 (2009 est.) 
				French Polynesia
				male: 2,665 
				female: 2,552 (2009 est.) 
				Gabon
				male: 16,933 
				female: 16,942 (2009 est.) 
				Gambia, The
				male: 20,238 
				female: 20,167 (2009 est.) 
				Gaza Strip
				male: 19,147 
				female: 18,200 (2009 est.) 
				Georgia
				male: 32,355 
				female: 30,809 (2009 est.) 
				Germany
				male: 431,508 
				female: 409,111 (2009 est.) 
				Ghana
				male: 272,954 
				female: 266,186 (2009 est.) 
				Gibraltar
				male: 186 
				female: 179 (2009 est.) 
				Greece
				male: 53,401 
				female: 50,084 (2009 est.) 
				Greenland
				male: 532 
				female: 491 (2009 est.) 
				Grenada
				male: 982 
				female: 937 (2009 est.) 
				Guam
				male: 1,677 
				female: 1,581 (2009 est.) 
				Guatemala
				male: 165,910 
				female: 163,760 (2009 est.) 
				Guernsey
				male: 362 
				female: 351 (2009 est.) 
				Guinea
				male: 110,281 
				female: 107,879 (2009 est.) 
				Guinea-Bissau
				male: 16,957 
				female: 17,172 (2009 est.) 
				Guyana
				male: 6,625 
				female: 6,365 (2009 est.) 
				Haiti
				male: 108,444 
				female: 106,243 (2009 est.) 
				Honduras
				male: 92,638 
				female: 88,993 (2009 est.) 
				Hong Kong
				male: 42,330 
				female: 38,797 (2009 est.) 
				Hungary
				male: 60,248 
				female: 57,280 (2009 est.) 
				Iceland
				male: 2,369 
				female: 2,349 (2009 est.) 
				India
				male: 11.795 million 
				female: 10,820,590 (2009 est.) 
				Indonesia
				male: 2,197,323 
				female: 2,126,412 (2009 est.) 
				Iran
				male: 700,213 
				female: 664,846 (2009 est.) 
				Iraq
				male: 313,500 
				female: 304,923 (2009 est.) 
				Ireland
				male: 28,072 
				female: 26,400 (2009 est.) 
				Isle of Man
				male: 466 
				female: 446 (2009 est.) 
				Israel
				male: 61,223 
				female: 58,219 (2009 est.) 
				Italy
				male: 287,845 
				female: 270,384 (2009 est.) 
				Jamaica
				male: 31,833 
				female: 31,257 (2009 est.) 
				Japan
				male: 621,254 
				female: 589,270 (2009 est.) 
				Jersey
				male: 586 
				female: 541 (2009 est.) 
				Jordan
				male: 69,830 
				female: 67,292 (2009 est.) 
				Kazakhstan
				male: 139,262 
				female: 133,047 (2009 est.) 
				Kenya
				male: 412,656 
				female: 408,657 (2009 est.) 
				Kiribati
				male: 1,264 
				female: 1,242 (2009 est.) 
				Korea, North
				male: 191,759 
				female: 184,641 (2009 est.) 
				Korea, South
				male: 371,728 
				female: 322,605 (2009 est.) 
				Kuwait
				male: 18,122 
				female: 18,865 (2009 est.) 
				Kyrgyzstan
				male: 57,659 
				female: 55,557 (2009 est.) 
				Laos
				male: 75,310 
				female: 74,498 (2009 est.) 
				Latvia
				male: 12,901 
				female: 12,497 (2009 est.) 
				Lebanon
				male: 33,018 
				female: 31,800 (2009 est.) 
				Lesotho
				male: 26,039 
				female: 25,964 (2009 est.) 
				Liberia
				male: 34,059 
				female: 33,281 (2009 est.) 
				Libya
				male: 60,710 
				female: 58,219 (2009 est.) 
				Liechtenstein
				male: 199 
				female: 222 (2009 est.) 
				Lithuania
				male: 23,556 
				female: 22,404 (2009 est.) 
				Luxembourg
				male: 3,170 
				female: 2,995 (2009 est.) 
				Macau
				male: 4,578 
				female: 4,052 (2009 est.) 
				Macedonia
				male: 14,596 
				female: 13,881 (2009 est.) 
				Madagascar
				male: 236,500 
				female: 235,994 (2009 est.) 
				Malawi
				male: 174,044 
				female: 173,828 (2009 est.) 
				Malaysia
				male: 266,267 
				female: 252,543 (2009 est.) 
				Maldives
				male: 4,576 
				female: 3,942 (2009 est.) 
				Mali
				male: 147,846 
				female: 140,543 (2009 est.) 
				Malta
				male: 2,695 
				female: 2,533 (2009 est.) 
				Marshall Islands
				male: 540 
				female: 521 (2009 est.) 
				Mauritania
				male: 34,546 
				female: 35,272 (2009 est.) 
				Mauritius
				male: 10,901 
				female: 10,796 (2009 est.) 
				Mayotte
				male: 2,517 
				female: 2,511 (2009 est.) 
				Mexico
				male: 1,109,981 
				female: 1,072,094 (2009 est.) 
				Micronesia, Federated States of
				male: 1,273 
				female: 1,212 (2009 est.) 
				Moldova
				male: 31,633 
				female: 30,214 (2009 est.) 
				Monaco
				male: 190 
				female: 182 (2009 est.) 
				Mongolia
				male: 28,251 
				female: 27,344 (2009 est.) 
				Montenegro
				male: 3,945 
				female: 3,907 (2009 est.) 
				Montserrat
				male: 36 
				female: 33 (2009 est.) 
				Morocco
				male: 356,014 
				female: 343,520 (2009 est.) 
				Mozambique
				male: 263,994 
				female: 265,058 (2009 est.) 
				Namibia
				male: 25,857 
				female: 25,505 (2009 est.) 
				Nauru
				male: 179 
				female: 174 (2009 est.) 
				Nepal
				male: 365,567 
				female: 352,643 (2009 est.) 
				Netherlands
				male: 105,194 
				female: 100,341 (2009 est.) 
				Netherlands Antilles
				male: 1,920 
				female: 1,827 (2009 est.) 
				New Caledonia
				male: 2,160 
				female: 2,087 (2009 est.) 
				New Zealand
				male: 31,461 
				female: 29,809 (2009 est.) 
				Nicaragua
				male: 72,366 
				female: 70,118 (2009 est.) 
				Niger
				male: 170,060 
				female: 163,996 (2009 est.) 
				Nigeria
				male: 1,697,030 
				female: 1,618,561 (2009 est.) 
				Northern Mariana Islands
				male: 570 
				female: 587 (2009 est.) 
				Norway
				male: 31,980 
				female: 30,543 (2009 est.) 
				Oman
				male: 35,647 
				female: 34,407 (2009 est.) 
				Pakistan
				male: 2,089,936 
				female: 1,964,090 (2009 est.) 
				Palau
				male: 207 
				female: 214 (2009 est.) 
				Panama
				male: 31,089 
				female: 29,939 (2009 est.) 
				Papua New Guinea
				male: 64,636 
				female: 62,803 (2009 est.) 
				Paraguay
				male: 73,660 
				female: 72,046 (2009 est.) 
				Peru
				male: 310,575 
				female: 300,838 (2009 est.) 
				Philippines
				male: 1,023,431 
				female: 986,434 (2009 est.) 
				Poland
				male: 246,667 
				female: 235,698 (2009 est.) 
				Portugal
				male: 64,047 
				female: 57,630 (2009 est.) 
				Puerto Rico
				male: 30,422 
				female: 29,396 (2009 est.) 
				Qatar
				male: 6,337 
				female: 5,059 (2009 est.) 
				Romania
				male: 124,356 
				female: 118,430 (2009 est.) 
				Russia
				male: 741,692 
				female: 706,081 (2009 est.) 
				Rwanda
				male: 106,741 
				female: 106,935 (2009 est.) 
				Saint Barthelemy
				male: 21 
				female: 20 (2009 est.) 
				Saint Helena
				male: 47 
				female: 45 (2009 est.) 
				Saint Kitts and Nevis
				male: 376 
				female: 362 (2009 est.) 
				Saint Lucia
				male: 1,607 
				female: 1,511 (2009 est.) 
				Saint Martin
				male: 177 
				female: 162 (2009 est.) 
				Saint Pierre and Miquelon
				male: 61 
				female: 57 (2009 est.) 
				Saint Vincent and the Grenadines
				male: 1,020 
				female: 1,009 (2009 est.) 
				Samoa
				male: 2,597 
				female: 2,477 (2009 est.) 
				San Marino
				male: 161 
				female: 160 (2009 est.) 
				Sao Tome and Principe
				male: 2,534 
				female: 2,485 (2009 est.) 
				Saudi Arabia
				male: 278,179 
				female: 267,905 (2009 est.) 
				Senegal
				male: 154,249 
				female: 153,679 (2009 est.) 
				Serbia
				male: 44,601 
				female: 41,845 (2009 est.) 
				Seychelles
				male: 714 
				female: 685 (2009 est.) 
				Sierra Leone
				male: 71,524 
				female: 75,491 (2009 est.) 
				Singapore
				male: 27,715 
				female: 26,290 (2009 est.) 
				Slovakia
				male: 36,552 
				female: 34,783 (2009 est.) 
				Slovenia
				male: 10,192 
				female: 9,717 (2009 est.) 
				Solomon Islands
				male: 7,091 
				female: 6,837 (2009 est.) 
				Somalia
				male: 93,763 
				female: 93,738 (2009 est.) 
				South Africa
				male: 511,616 
				female: 510,540 (2009 est.) 
				Spain
				male: 199,124 
				female: 187,224 (2009 est.) 
				Sri Lanka
				male: 173,256 
				female: 167,645 (2009 est.) 
				Sudan
				male: 498,376 
				female: 479,005 (2009 est.) 
				Suriname
				male: 4,251 
				female: 4,265 (2009 est.) 
				Swaziland
				male: 15,985 
				female: 15,754 (2009 est.) 
				Sweden
				male: 62,262 
				female: 59,340 (2009 est.) 
				Switzerland
				male: 48,076 
				female: 44,049 (2009 est.) 
				Syria
				male: 213,513 
				female: 201,055 (2009 est.) 
				Taiwan
				male: 165,738 
				female: 154,123 (2009 est.) 
				Tajikistan
				male: 80,819 
				female: 78,460 (2009 est.) 
				Tanzania
				male: 487,742 
				female: 489,462 (2009 est.) 
				Thailand
				male: 532,977 
				female: 510,737 (2009 est.) 
				Timor-Leste
				male: 12,887 
				female: 12,529 (2009 est.) 
				Togo
				male: 70,775 
				female: 70,051 (2009 est.) 
				Tonga
				male: 1,458 
				female: 1,403 (2009 est.) 
				Trinidad and Tobago
				male: 9,183 
				female: 8,662 (2009 est.) 
				Tunisia
				male: 100,478 
				female: 94,055 (2009 est.) 
				Turkey
				male: 692,592 
				female: 663,689 (2009 est.) 
				Turkmenistan
				male: 57,021 
				female: 56,064 (2009 est.) 
				Turks and Caicos Islands
				male: 226 
				female: 218 (2009 est.) 
				Tuvalu
				male: 125 
				female: 121 (2009 est.) 
				Uganda
				male: 399,134 
				female: 395,505 (2009 est.) 
				Ukraine
				male: 269,311 
				female: 257,656 (2009 est.) 
				United Arab Emirates
				male: 26,659 
				female: 23,793 (2009 est.) 
				United Kingdom
				male: 393,892 
				female: 376,351 (2009 est.) 
				United States
				male: 2,196,124 
				female: 2,085,085 (2009 est.) 
				Uruguay
				male: 27,452 
				female: 26,479 (2009 est.) 
				Uzbekistan
				male: 313,131 
				female: 310,442 (2009 est.) 
				Vanuatu
				male: 2,368 
				female: 2,272 (2009 est.) 
				Venezuela
				male: 276,051 
				female: 274,162 (2009 est.) 
				Vietnam
				male: 893,726 
				female: 834,279 (2009 est.) 
				Virgin Islands
				male: 831 
				female: 873 (2009 est.) 
				Wallis and Futuna
				male: 175 
				female: 164 (2009 est.) 
				West Bank
				male: 30,233 
				female: 28,745 (2009 est.) 
				Western Sahara
				male: 4,796 
				female: 4,679 (2009 est.) 
				Yemen
				male: 273,624 
				female: 263,402 (2009 est.) 
				Zambia
				male: 149,567 
				female: 148,889 (2009 est.) 
				Zimbabwe
				male: 149,592 
				female: 149,717 (2009 est.)  		
				This page was last updated on 19 March 2009
&nbsp; 
CIA - The World Factbook -- Field Listing - Trafficking in persons
&nbsp; 
				    &nbsp; 
                    Field Listing - Trafficking in persons
         Home 
          &nbsp;Reference Maps 
          &nbsp;Appendixes 
			Country
			Trafficking in persons 	
				Albania
				current situation: Albania is a source country for women and girls trafficked for the purpose of commercial sexual exploitation and forced labor; it is no longer considered a major country of transit; Albanian victims are trafficked to Greece, Italy, Macedonia, and Kosovo, with many trafficked onward to Western European countries; children were also trafficked to Greece for begging and other forms of child labor; approximately half of all Albanian trafficking victims are under age 18; internal sex trafficking of women and children is on the rise 
				tier rating: Tier 2 Watch List - Albania is on the Tier 2 Watch List for its failure to provide evidence of increasing efforts to combat trafficking in persons in 2007, particularly in the area of victim protection; the government did not appropriately identify trafficking victims during 2007, and has not demonstrated that it is vigorously investigating or prosecuting complicit officials (2008) 
				Algeria
				current situation: Algeria is a transit country for men and women trafficked from sub-Saharan Africa to Europe for the purposes of commercial sexual exploitation and involuntary servitude; Algerian children are trafficked internally for the purpose of domestic servitude or street vending 
				tier rating: Tier 3 - Algeria did not report any serious law enforcement actions to punish traffickers who force women into commercial sexual exploitation or men into involuntary servitude in 2007; the government again reported no investigations of trafficking of children for domestic servitude or improvements in protection services available to victims of trafficking; Algeria still lacks victim protection services, and its failure to distinguish between trafficking and illegal migration may result in the punishment of victims of trafficking (2008) 
				Argentina
				current situation: Argentina is a source, transit, and destination country for men, women, and children trafficked for the purposes of commercial sexual exploitation and forced labor; most victims are trafficked within the country, from rural to urban areas; child sex tourism is a problem; foreign women and children, primarily from Paraguay, Brazil, and the Dominican Republic, are trafficked to Argentina for commercial sexual exploitation; Argentine women and girls are also trafficked to neighboring countries, Mexico, and Western Europe for sexual exploitation; a significant number of Bolivians, Peruvians, and Paraguayans are trafficked into the country for forced labor in sweatshops, agriculture, and as domestic servants 
				tier rating: Tier 2 Watch List - despite some progress, Argentina remains on the Tier 2 Watch List for the third consecutive year for its failure to show evidence of increasing efforts to combat human trafficking, particularly in terms of providing adequate assistance to victims and curbing official complicity with trafficking activity, especially on the provincial and local levels; the Argentine Congress has demonstrated progress by enacting much-needed and first-ever federal anti-trafficking legislation (2008) 
				Armenia
				current situation: Armenia is primarily a source country for women and girls trafficked to the UAE and Turkey for the purpose of commercial sexual exploitation; Armenian men and women are trafficked to Turkey and Russia for the purpose of forced labor 
				tier rating: Tier 2 Watch List - Armenia is placed on the Tier 2 Watch List for a fourth consecutive year; its efforts to increase compliance with the minimum standards were assessed based on its commitments to undertake future actions, particularly in the areas of improving victim protection and assistance; while the government elevated anti-trafficking responsibilities to the ministerial level, adopted a new National Action Plan, and drafted a National Referral Mechanism, it has yet to show tangible progress in identifying and protecting victims or in tackling trafficking complicity of government officials; the Armenian Government made some notable improvements in its anti-trafficking law enforcement efforts, but it failed to demonstrate evidence of investigations, prosecutions, convictions, and sentences of officials complicit in trafficking (2008) 
				Azerbaijan
				current situation: Azerbaijan is primarily a source and transit country for men, women, and children trafficked for the purposes of commercial sexual exploitation and forced labor; women and some children from Azerbaijan are trafficked to Turkey and the UAE for the purpose of sexual exploitation; men and boys are trafficked to Russia for the purpose of forced labor; Azerbaijan serves as a transit country for victims from Uzbekistan, Kyrgyzstan, Kazakhstan, and Moldova trafficked to Turkey and the UAE for sexual exploitation 
				tier rating: Tier 2 Watch List - Azerbaijan is on the Tier 2 Watch List for its failure to provide evidence of increasing efforts to combat trafficking in persons, particularly efforts to investigate, prosecute, and punish traffickers; to address complicity among law enforcement personnel; and to adequately identify and protect victims in Azerbaijan; the government has yet to develop a much-needed mechanism to identify potential trafficking victims and refer them to safety and care; poor treatment of trafficking victims in courtrooms continues to be a problem (2008) 
				Bahrain
				current situation: Bahrain is a destination country for men and women trafficked for the purposes of involuntary servitude and commercial sexual exploitation; men and women from Africa, South Asia, and Southeast Asia migrate voluntarily to Bahrain to work as laborers or domestic servants where some face conditions of involuntary servitude such as unlawful withholding of passports, restrictions on movements, non-payment of wages, threats, and physical or sexual abuse; women from Thailand, Morocco, Eastern Europe, and Central Asia are trafficked to Bahrain for the purpose of commercial sexual exploitation 
				tier rating: Tier 2 Watch List - Bahrain is on the Tier 2 Watch List for failing to show evidence of increased efforts to combat human trafficking, particularly efforts that enforce laws against trafficking in persons, and that prevent the punishment of victims of trafficking; during 2007, Bahrain passed a comprehensive law prohibiting all forms of trafficking in persons; the government also established a specialized anti-trafficking unit within the Ministry of Interior to investigate trafficking crimes; however, the government did not report any prosecutions or convictions for trafficking offenses during 2007, despite reports of a substantial problem of involuntary servitude and sex trafficking (2008) 
				Burma
				current situation: Burma is a source country for women, children, and men trafficked for the purpose of forced labor and commercial sexual exploitation; Burmese women and children are trafficked to East and Southeast Asia for commercial sexual exploitation, domestic servitude, and forced labor; Burmese children are subjected to conditions of forced labor in Thailand as hawkers, beggars, and for work in shops, agriculture, fish processing, and small-scale industries; women are trafficked for commercial sexual exploitation to Malaysia and China; some trafficking victims transit Burma from Bangladesh to Malaysia and from China to Thailand; internal trafficking occurs primarily from villages to urban centers and economic hubs for labor in industrial zones, agricultural estates, and commercial sexual exploitation; military and civilian officials continue to use a significant amount of forced labor; ethnic insurgent groups also used compulsory labor of adults and unlawful recruitment of children; the military junta's gross economic mismanagement, human rights abuses, and its policy of using forced labor are the top causal factors for Burma's significant trafficking problem 
				tier rating: Tier 3 - Burma does not fully comply with the minimum standards for the elimination of trafficking and is not making significant efforts to do so; military and civilian officials remain directly involved in significant acts of forced labor and unlawful conscription of child soldiers (2008) 
				Burundi
				current situation: Burundi is a source country for children trafficked for the purposes of child soldiering, domestic servitude, and commercial sexual exploitation; a small number of Burundian children may be trafficked internally for domestic servitude or commercial sexual exploitation; in early 2008, Burundian children were allegedly trafficked to Uganda, via Rwanda, for agricultural labor and commercial sexual exploitation 
				tier rating: Tier 2 Watch List - Burundi is on the Tier 2 Watch List for the second consecutive year for its failure to provide sufficient evidence of increasing efforts to combat trafficking in persons in 2007; the government's inability to provide adequate protective services to children accused of association with armed groups and to conduct anti-trafficking law enforcement activities continue to be causes for concern; Burundi has not ratified the 2000 UN TIP Protocol (2008) 
				Cameroon
				current situation: Cameroon is a source, transit, and destination country for women and children trafficked for the purposes of forced labor and commercial sexual exploitation; most victims are children trafficked within country, with girls primarily trafficked for domestic servitude and sexual exploitation; both boys and girls are also trafficked within Cameroon for forced labor in sweatshops, bars, restaurants, and on tea and cocoa plantations; children are trafficked into Cameroon from neighboring states for forced labor in agriculture, fishing, street vending, and spare-parts shops; Cameroon is a transit country for children trafficked between Gabon and Nigeria, and from Nigeria to Saudi Arabia; it is a source country for women transported by sex-trafficking rings to Europe 
				tier rating: Tier 2 Watch List - Cameroon is on the Tier 2 Watch List for its failure to provide evidence of increasing efforts to combat human trafficking in 2007, particularly in terms of efforts to prosecute and convict trafficking offenders; while Cameroon reported some arrests of traffickers, none of them were prosecuted or punished; the government does not identify trafficking victims among vulnerable populations nor does it monitor the number of victims it intercepts (2008) 
				Central African Republic
				current situation: Central African Republic is a source, transit, and destination country for men, women, and children trafficked for the purposes of forced labor and sexual exploitation; the majority of victims are children trafficked within the country for sexual exploitation, domestic servitude, street vending, and forced agricultural, mine, market and restaurant labor; to a lesser extent, children are trafficked from the Central African Republic to Cameroon, Nigeria, and the Democratic Republic of Congo; rebels conscript children into armed forces within the country 
				tier rating: Tier 2 Watch List - Central African Republic is on the Tier 2 Watch List for the third consecutive year for its failure to show evidence of increasing efforts to combat trafficking in 2007; efforts to address trafficking through vigorous law enforcement measures and victim protection efforts were minimal, though awareness about trafficking appeared to be increasing in the country; the government does not actively investigate cases, work to identify trafficking victims among vulnerable populations, or rescue and provide care to victims; the government has not taken measures to reduce demand for commercial sex acts (2008) 
				Chad
				current situation: Chad is a source, transit, and destination country for children trafficked for the purposes of forced labor and commercial sexual exploitation; the majority of children are trafficked within Chad for involuntary domestic servitude, forced cattle herding, forced begging, forced labor in petty commerce or the fishing industry, or for commercial sexual exploitation; to a lesser extent, Chadian children are also trafficked to Cameroon, the Central African Republic, and Nigeria for cattle herding; children may also be trafficked from Cameroon and the Central African Republic to Chad's oil producing regions for sexual exploitation 
				tier rating: Tier 2 Watch List - Chad is on the Tier 2 Watch List for its failure to provide evidence of increasing efforts to combat human trafficking in 2007; Chad was destabilized during 2007 by civil conflict leading to a declared state of emergency in February 2008, and a steady influx of refugees fleeing Sudan and the Central African Republic; the government demonstrated insufficient overall efforts to combat trafficking; Chad has not ratified the 2000 UN TIP Protocol (2008) 
				China
				current situation: China is a source, transit, and destination country for men, women, and children trafficked for the purposes of sexual exploitation and forced labor; the majority of trafficking in China occurs within the country's borders, but there is also considerable international trafficking of Chinese citizens to Africa, Asia, Europe, Latin America, the Middle East, and North America; Chinese women are lured abroad through false promises of legitimate employment, only to be forced into commercial sexual exploitation, largely in Taiwan, Thailand, Malaysia, and Japan; women and children are trafficked to China from Mongolia, Burma, North Korea, Russia, and Vietnam for forced labor, marriage, and prostitution; some North Korean women and children seeking to leave their country voluntarily cross the border into China and are then sold into prostitution, marriage, or forced labor 
				tier rating: Tier 2 Watch List - China is on the Tier 2 Watch List for the fourth consecutive year for its failure to provide evidence of increasing efforts to combat human trafficking, particularly in terms of punishment of trafficking crimes and the protection of Chinese and foreign victims of trafficking; victims are sometimes punished for unlawful acts that were committed as a direct result of their being trafficked, such as violations of prostitution or immigration/emigration controls; the Chinese Government continued to treat North Korean victims of trafficking solely as economic migrants, routinely deporting them back to horrendous conditions in North Korea; additional challenges facing the Chinese Government include the enormous size of its trafficking problem and the significant level of corruption and complicity in trafficking by some local government officials (2008) 
				Congo, Democratic Republic of the
				current situation: Democratic Republic of the Congo is a source and destination country for men, women, and children trafficked for the purposes of forced labor and sexual exploitation; much of this trafficking occurs within the country's unstable eastern provinces and is perpetrated by armed groups outside government control 
				tier rating: Tier 2 Watch List - Democratic Republic of the Congo is on the Tier 2 Watch List for its failure to provide evidence of increasing efforts to combat trafficking in persons in 2007; while some significant initial advances were noted, the government's capacity to apprehend, convict, or imprison traffickers remained weak; the government lacks sufficient financial, technical, and human resources to effectively address not only trafficking crimes, but also to provide basic levels of security in some parts of the country (2008) 
				Congo, Republic of the
				current situation: Republic of the Congo is a source and destination country for children trafficked for the purposes of forced labor and commercial sexual exploitation; girls are trafficked from rural areas within the country for commercial sexual exploitation, forced street vending, and domestic servitude; children are trafficked from other African countries for domestic servitude, forced market vending, and forced labor in the fishing industry 
				tier rating: Tier 2 Watch List - Republic of the Congo is on the Tier 2 Watch List for its failure to show evidence of increasing efforts to combat trafficking in persons in 2007; struggling to recover from six years of civil conflict that ended in 2003, the Republic of the Congo's capacity to address trafficking is handicapped; the government neither monitors its borders for trafficking activity nor provides specialized anti-trafficking training for law enforcement officials; the government does not encourage victims to assist in trafficking investigations or prosecutions, and has not taken measures to reduce demand for commercial sex acts in the Republic of the Congo (2008) 
				Costa Rica
				current situation: Costa Rica is a source, transit, and destination country for men, women, and children trafficked for the purposes of commercial sexual exploitation and forced labor; women and girls from neighboring states, Russia, Uzbekistan, and the Philippines are trafficked into the country for sexual exploitation; Costa Rica also serves as a transit point for victims trafficked to North America and Europe; the government identifies child sex tourism as a serious problem; men, women, and children are also trafficked within the country for forced labor in fishing and construction, and as domestic servants 
				tier rating: Tier 2 Watch List - Costa Rica is on the Tier 2 Watch List for its failure to provide evidence of increasing efforts to combat human trafficking, particularly in terms of its failure to improve its inadequate assistance to victims; while Costa Rican officials recognize human trafficking as a serious problem, the lack of a stronger response by the government is of concern (2008) 
				Cote d'Ivoire
			Cote d'Ivoire is a source, transit, and destination country for women and children trafficked for forced labor and commercial sexual exploitation; trafficking within the country is more prevalent than international trafficking and the majority of victims are children; women and girls are trafficked from northern areas to southern cities for domestic servitude, restaurant labor, and sexual exploitation; boys are trafficked internally for agricultural and service labor and transnationally for forced labor in agriculture, mining, construction, and in the fishing industry; women and girls are trafficked to and from other West and Central African countries for domestic servitude and forced street vending 
				tier rating: Tier 2 Watch List - Cote d'Ivoire is on the Tier 2 Watch List for its failure to provide evidence of increasing efforts to eliminate trafficking in 2007, particularly with regard to its law enforcement efforts and protection of sex trafficking victims; in addition, Ivoirian law does not prohibit all forms of trafficking, and Cote d'Ivoire has not ratified the 2000 UN TIP Protocol (2008) 
				Cuba
				current situation: Cuba is principally a source country for women and children trafficked within the country for the purpose of commercial sexual exploitation and possibly for forced labor; the country is a destination for sex tourism, including child sex tourism, which is a problem in many areas of the country; some Cuban nationals willingly migrate to the United States, but are subsequently exploited for forced labor by their smugglers; Cuba is also a transit point for the smuggling of migrants from China, Sri Lanka, Bangladesh, Lebanon, and other nations to the United States and Canada 
				tier rating: Tier 3 - Cuba does not fully comply with the minimum standards for the elimination of trafficking and is not making significant efforts to do so; exact information about trafficking in Cuba is difficult to obtain because the government does not acknowledge or condemn human trafficking as a problem in Cuba; tangible efforts to prosecute offenders, protect victims, or prevent human trafficking activity do not appear to have been made during 2007; Cuba has not ratified the 2000 UN TIP Protocol (2008) 
				Cyprus
				current situation: Cyprus is primarily a destination country for a large number of women trafficked from Eastern and Central Europe, the Philippines, and the Dominican Republic for the purpose of sexual exploitation; traffickers continued to fraudulently recruit victims for work as dancers in cabarets and nightclubs on short-term "artiste" visas, for work in pubs and bars on employment visas, or for illegal work on tourist or student visas 
				tier rating: Tier 2 Watch List - Cyprus is on the Tier 2 Watch List for a third consecutive year for failure to show evidence of increasing efforts to combat human trafficking during 2007; although Cyprus passed a new trafficking law and opened a government trafficking shelter, these efforts are outweighed by its failure to show tangible and critically needed progress in the areas of law enforcement, victim protection, and the prevention of trafficking (2008) 
				Dominican Republic
				current situation: the Dominican Republic is a source, transit, and destination country for men, women, and children trafficked for the purposes of commercial sexual exploitation and forced labor; a large number of Dominican women are trafficked into prostitution and sexual exploitation in Western Europe, Australia, Central and South America, and Caribbean destinations; a significant number of women, boys, and girls are trafficked within the country for sexual exploitation and domestic servitude 
				tier rating: Tier 2 Watch List - for a second consecutive year, the Dominican Republic is on the Tier 2 Watch List for its failure to show evidence of increasing efforts to combat human trafficking, particularly in terms of not adequately investigating and prosecuting public officials who may be complicit with trafficking activity, and inadequate government efforts to protect trafficking victims; the government has taken measures to reduce demand for commercial sex acts with children through criminal prosecutions (2008) 
				Egypt
				current situation: Egypt is a transit country for women trafficked from Eastern European countries to Israel for sexual exploitation, and is a source for children trafficked within the country for commercial sexual exploitation and domestic servitude, although the extent to which children are trafficked internally is unknown; children were also recruited for domestic and agricultural work; some of these children face conditions of involuntary servitude, such as restrictions on movement, non-payment of wages, threats, and physical or sexual abuse 
				tier rating: Tier 2 Watch List - Egypt is on the Tier 2 Watch List for the third year in a row because it did not provide evidence of increasing efforts to investigate and prosecute traffickers; however, in July 2007, the government established the "National Coordinating Committee to Combat and Prevent Trafficking in Persons," which improved inter-governmental coordination on anti-trafficking initiatives; Egypt made no discernible efforts to punish trafficking crimes in 2007 and the Egyptian penal code does not prohibit all forms of trafficking; Egypt did not increase its services to trafficking victims during the reporting period (2008) 
				Equatorial Guinea
				current situation: Equatorial Guinea is primarily a destination country for children trafficked for the purpose of forced labor and possibly for the purpose of sexual exploitation; children have been trafficked from nearby countries for domestic servitude, market labor, ambulant vending, and possibly sexual exploitation; women may also be trafficked to Equatorial Guinea from Cameroon, Benin, other neighboring countries, and China for sexual exploitation 
				tier rating: Tier 2 Watch List - Equatorial Guinea is on the Tier 2 Watch List for its failure to provide evidence of increasing efforts to eliminate trafficking, particularly in the areas of prosecuting and convicting trafficking offenders and failing to formalize mechanisms to provide assistance to victims; although the government made some effort to enforce laws against child labor exploitation, it failed to report any trafficking prosecutions or convictions in 2007; the government continued to lack shelters or formal procedures for providing care to victims (2008) 
				Fiji
				current situation: Fiji is a source country for children trafficked for the purpose of commercial sexual exploitation and a destination country for a small number of women from China and India trafficked for the purposes of forced labor and commercial sexual exploitation 
				tier rating: Tier 3 - Fiji does not fully comply with the minimum standards for the elimination of trafficking and is not making significant efforts to do so; the government has demonstrated no action to investigate or prosecute traffickers, assist victims, take steps to reduce the demand for commercial sex acts, or support any anti-trafficking information or education campaigns; Fiji has not ratified the 2000 UN TIP Protocol (2008) 
				Gabon
				current situation: Gabon is predominantly a destination country for children trafficked from other African countries for the purpose of forced labor; girls are primarily trafficked for domestic servitude, forced market vending, forced restaurant labor, and sexual exploitation, while boys are trafficked for forced street hawking and forced labor in small workshops 
				tier rating: Tier 2 Watch List - Gabon is on the Tier 2 Watch List for its failure to provide evidence of increasing efforts to combat human trafficking in 2007, particularly in terms of efforts to convict and punish trafficking offenders; the government has not reported the convictions or sentences of any trafficking offenders; the government did not take steps to reduce demand for commercial sex acts (2008) 
				Gambia, The
				current situation: The Gambia is a source, transit, and destination country for children and women trafficked for the purposes of forced labor and commercial sexual exploitation; women and girls, and to a lesser extent boys, are trafficked for sexual exploitation - in particular to meet the demand for European sex tourism - and for domestic servitude; boys are trafficked within the country for forced begging and street vending; Gambian women and children may be trafficked to Europe through trafficking schemes disguised as migrant smuggling 
				tier rating: Tier 2 Watch List - for a second consecutive year, The Gambia is on the Tier 2 Watch List for its failure to provide evidence of increasing efforts to eliminate trafficking; The Gambia failed to report any trafficking arrests, prosecutions, or convictions in 2007, and the government demonstrated weak victim protection efforts during the reporting period (2008) 
				Guatemala
				current situation: Guatemala is a source, transit, and destination country for Guatemalans and Central Americans trafficked for the purposes of commercial sexual exploitation and forced labor; human trafficking is a significant and growing problem in the country; Guatemalan women and children are trafficked within the country for commercial sexual exploitation, primarily to Mexico and the United States; Guatemalan men, women, and children are also trafficked within the country, and to Mexico and the United States, for forced labor 
				tier rating: Tier 2 Watch List - for a second consecutive year, Guatemala is on the Tier 2 Watch List for its failure to provide evidence of increasing efforts to combat trafficking in persons, particularly with respect to ensuring that trafficking offenders are appropriately prosecuted for their crimes; while prosecutors initiated trafficking prosecutions, they continued to face problems in court with application of Guatemala's comprehensive anti-trafficking law; the government made modest improvements to its protection efforts, but assistance remained inadequate overall in 2007 (2008) 
				Guinea
				current situation: Guinea is a source, transit, and destination country for men, women, and children trafficked for the purposes of forced labor and sexual exploitation; the majority of victims are children, and internal trafficking is more prevalent than transnational trafficking; within the country, girls are trafficked primarily for domestic servitude and sexual exploitation, while boys are trafficked for forced agricultural labor, and as forced beggars, street vendors, shoe shiners, and laborers in gold and diamond mines; some Guinean men are also trafficked for agricultural labor within Guinea; transnationally, girls are trafficked into Guinea for domestic servitude and likely also for sexual exploitation 
				tier rating: Tier 2 Watch List - Guinea is on the Tier 2 Watch List for its failure to provide evidence of increasing efforts to eliminate trafficking over 2006; Guinea demonstrated minimal law enforcement efforts for a second year in a row, while protection efforts diminished over efforts in 2006; the government did not report any trafficking convictions in 2007; due to a lack of resources, the government does not provide shelter services for trafficking victims; the government took no measures to reduce the demand for commercial sexual exploitation (2008) 
				Guinea-Bissau
				current situation: Guinea-Bissau is a source country for children trafficked primarily for forced begging and forced agricultural labor to other West African countries 
				tier rating: Tier 2 Watch List - for the second year in a row, Guinea-Bissau is on the Tier 2 Watch List for its failure to combat severe forms of trafficking in persons, as evidenced by the continued failure to pass an anti-trafficking law and inadequate efforts to investigate or prosecute trafficking crimes or convict and punish trafficking offenders (2008) 
				Guyana
				current situation: Guyana is a source, transit, and destination country for men, women, and children trafficked for the purposes of commercial sexual exploitation and forced labor; most trafficking appears to take place in remote mining camps in the country's interior; some women and girls are trafficked from northern Brazil; reporting from other nations suggests Guyanese women and girls are trafficked for sexual exploitation to neighboring countries and Guyanese men and boys are subject to labor exploitation in construction and agriculture; trafficking victims from Suriname, Brazil, and Venezuela transit Guyana en route to Caribbean destinations 
				tier rating: Tier 2 Watch List - for a second consecutive year, Guyana is on the Tier 2 Watch List for failing to provide evidence of increasing efforts to combat trafficking, particularly in the area of law enforcement actions against trafficking offenders; the government has yet to produce an anti-trafficking conviction under the comprehensive Combating of Trafficking in Persons Act, which became law in 2005; the government operates no shelters for trafficking victims, but did include limited funding for anti-trafficking NGOs in its 2008 budget; the government did not make any effort to reduce demand for commercial sex acts during 2007 (2008) 
				India
				current situation: India is a source, destination, and transit country for men, women, and children trafficked for the purposes of forced labor and commercial sexual exploitation; internal forced labor may constitute India's largest trafficking problem; men, women, and children are held in debt bondage and face forced labor working in brick kilns, rice mills, agriculture, and embroidery factories; women and girls are trafficked within the country for the purposes of commercial sexual exploitation and forced marriage; children are subjected to forced labor as factory workers, domestic servants, beggars, and agriculture workers, and have been used as armed combatants by some terrorist and insurgent groups; India is also a destination for women and girls from Nepal and Bangladesh trafficked for the purpose of commercial sexual exploitation; Indian women are trafficked to the Middle East for commercial sexual exploitation; men and women from Bangladesh and Nepal are trafficked through India for forced labor and commercial sexual exploitation in the Middle East 
				tier rating: Tier 2 Watch List - India is on the Tier 2 Watch List for a fifth consecutive year for its failure to provide evidence of increasing efforts to combat human trafficking in 2007; despite the reported extent of the trafficking crisis in India, government authorities made uneven efforts to prosecute traffickers and protect trafficking victims; government authorities continued to rescue victims of commercial sexual exploitation and forced child labor and child armed combatants, and began to show progress in law enforcement against these forms of trafficking; a critical challenge overall is the lack of punishment for traffickers, effectively resulting in impunity for acts of human trafficking; India has not ratified the 2000 UN TIP Protocol (2008) 
				Iran
				current situation: Iran is a source, transit, and destination country for women trafficked for the purposes of sexual exploitation and involuntary servitude; Iranian women are trafficked internally for the purpose of forced prostitution and for forced marriages to settle debts; Iranian children are trafficked internally and Afghan children are trafficked into Iran for the purpose of forced marriages, commercial sexual exploitation, and involuntary servitude as beggars or laborers 
				tier rating: Tier 3 - Iran did not provide evidence of law enforcement activities against trafficking, and credible reports indicate that Iranian authorities punish victims of trafficking with beatings, imprisonment, and execution; Iran has not ratified the 2000 UN TIP Protocol (2008) 
				Jordan
				current situation: Jordan is a destination and transit country for women and men from South and Southeast Asia trafficked for the purpose of forced labor; Jordan is also a destination for women from Eastern Europe and Morocco for prostitution; women from Bangladesh, Sri Lanka, Indonesia, and the Philippines migrate willingly to work as domestic servants, but some are subjected to conditions of forced labor, including unlawful withholding of passports, restrictions on movement, non-payment of wages, threats, and physical or sexual abuse 
				tier rating: Tier 2 Watch List - Jordan is on the Tier 2 Watch List for its failure to provide evidence of increasing efforts to combat trafficking in persons in 2007, particularly in the area of law enforcement against trafficking for forced labor; the government made minimal efforts to investigate or prosecute numerous allegations related to exploitation of foreign domestic workers; Jordan failed for a second year to criminally prosecute and punish those who committed acts of forced labor; Jordan also continues to lack victim protection services; Jordan has not ratified the 2000 UN TIP Protocol (2008) 
				Korea, North
				current situation: North Korea is a source country for men, women, and children trafficked for the purposes of forced labor and commercial sexual exploitation; the most common form of trafficking involves North Korean women and girls who cross the border into China voluntarily; additionally, North Korean women and girls are lured out of North Korea to escape poor social and economic conditions by the promise of food, jobs, and freedom, only to be forced into prostitution, marriage, or exploitative labor arrangements once in China 
				tier rating: Tier 3 - North Korea does not fully comply with minimum standards for the elimination of trafficking and is not making significant efforts to do so; the government does not acknowledge the existence of human rights abuses in the country or recognize trafficking, either within the country or transnationally; North Korea has not ratified the 2000 UN TIP Protocol (2008) 
				Kuwait
				current situation: Kuwait is a destination country for men and women who migrate legally from South and Southeast Asia for domestic or low-skilled labor, but are subjected to conditions of involuntary servitude by employers in Kuwait including conditions of physical and sexual abuse, non-payment of wages, confinement to the home, and withholding of passports to restrict their freedom of movement; Kuwait is reportedly a transit point for South and East Asian workers recruited for low-skilled work in Iraq; some of these workers are deceived as to the true location and nature of this work, and others are subjected to conditions of involuntary servitude in Iraq 
				tier rating: Tier 3 - insufficient efforts in 2007 to prosecute and punish abusive employers and those who traffic women for sexual exploitation; the government failed for the fourth year in a row to live up to promises to provide shelter and protective services for victims of involuntary domestic servitude and other forms of trafficking (2008) 
				Libya
				current situation: Libya is a transit and destination country for men and women from sub-Saharan Africa and Asia trafficked for the purposes of forced labor and commercial sexual exploitation 
				tier rating: Tier 2 Watch List - Libya is on the Tier 2 Watch List for its failure to provide evidence of increasing efforts to address trafficking in persons in 2007 when compared to 2006, particularly in the area of investigating and prosecuting trafficking offenses; Libya did not publicly release any data on investigations or punishment of any trafficking offenses (2008) 
				Malaysia
				current situation: Malaysia is a destination and, to a lesser extent, a source and transit country for women and children trafficked for the purpose of commercial sexual exploitation, and men, women, and children for forced labor; Malaysia is mainly a destination country for men, women, and children who migrate willingly from South and Southeast Asia to work, some of whom are subjected to conditions of involuntary servitude by Malaysian employers in the domestic, agricultural, construction, plantation, and industrial sectors; to a lesser extent, some Malaysian women, primarily of Chinese ethnicity, are trafficked abroad for commercial sexual exploitation 
				tier rating: Tier 2 Watch List - Malaysia improved from Tier 3 to the Tier 2 Watch List for 2008 when it enacted comprehensive anti-trafficking legislation in July 2007; however, it did not take action against exploitative employers or labor traffickers in 2007; the government has not ratified the 2000 UN TIP Protocol (2008) 
				Moldova
				current situation: Moldova is a major source and, to a lesser extent, a transit country for women and girls trafficked for the purpose of commercial sexual exploitation; Moldovan women are trafficked to the Middle East, Eastern Europe, and Western Europe; girls and young women are trafficked within the country from rural areas to Chisinau; children are also trafficked to neighboring countries for forced labor and begging; labor trafficking of men to work in the construction, agriculture, and service sectors of Russia is increasingly a problem 
				tier rating: Tier 3 - Moldova does not fully comply with the minimum standards for the elimination of trafficking and is not making significant efforts to do so; the government failed to follow-up on allegations of officials complicit in trafficking cited in the 2007 Report, and it did not demonstrate proactive efforts to identify trafficking victims (2008) 
				Montenegro
				current situation: Montenegro is primarily a transit country for the trafficking of women and girls to Western Europe for the purpose of commercial sexual exploitation; women and girls from the Balkans and Eastern Europe are trafficked across Montenegro to Western European countries 
				tier rating: Tier 2 Watch List - Montenegro is on the Tier 2 Watch List for its failure to provide evidence of increasing efforts to combat trafficking in persons in 2007; public attention to the issue of trafficking has diminished considerably in Montenegro in recent years (2008) 
				Mozambique
				current situation: Mozambique is a source and, to a much lesser extent, a destination country for men, women, and children trafficked for the purposes of forced labor and sexual exploitation; the use of forced and bonded child laborers is a common practice in Mozambique's rural areas; women and girls are trafficked from rural to urban areas of Mozambique, as well as to South Africa, for domestic servitude and commercial sexual exploitation; young men and boys are trafficked to South Africa for farm work and mining 
				tier rating: Tier 2 Watch List - for the second consecutive year, Mozambique is on the Tier 2 Watch List for its failure to provide evidence of increasing efforts to combat human trafficking in 2007; while the government conducted investigations into cases of human trafficking, there were no prosecutions or convictions of traffickers; government efforts to protect victims of trafficking continued to suffer from limited resources and a lack of political commitment (2008) 
				Niger
				current situation: Niger is a source, transit, and destination country for children and women trafficked for forced labor and sexual exploitation; caste-based slavery practices, rooted in ancestral master-slave relationships, continue in isolated areas of the country - an estimated 8,800 to 43,000 Nigeriens live under conditions of traditional slavery; children are trafficked within Niger for forced begging, forced labor in gold mines, domestic servitude, sexual exploitation, and possibly for forced labor in agriculture and stone quarries; women and children from neighboring states are trafficked to and through Niger for domestic servitude, sexual exploitation, forced labor in mines and on farms, and as mechanics and welders 
				tier rating: Tier 2 Watch List - Niger is on the Tier 2 Watch List for its failure to provide evidence of increasing efforts to eliminate trafficking in 2007; in particular, measures to combat and eliminate traditional slavery practices were weak; the government's overall law enforcement efforts have stalled from 2006; while efforts to protect child trafficking victims were steady, the government failed to provide services to or rescue adult victims subjected to traditional slavery practices, and made poor efforts to educate the public about traditional slavery practices in general (2008) 
				Oman
				current situation: Oman is a destination country for men and women primarily from Bangladesh, India, Sri Lanka, and Pakistan who migrate willingly, but some of whom become victims of trafficking when subjected to conditions of involuntary servitude as domestic workers and laborers; mistreatment includes non-payment of wages, restrictions on movement and withholding of passports, threats, and physical or sexual abuse; Oman may also be a destination country for women from Asia, Eastern Europe, and North Africa for commercial sexual exploitation 
				tier rating: Tier 3 - Oman was rated as Tier 3 for the second consecutive year because it did not report any law enforcement efforts to prosecute and punish trafficking offenses in 2007 and continues to lack victim protection services or a systematic procedure to identify victims of trafficking (2008) 
				Panama
				current situation: Panama is a source, transit, and destination country for women and children trafficked for the purpose of commercial sexual exploitation; the majority of victims are Panamanian women and children trafficked within the country into the sex trade; rural children in Panama may be trafficked internally to urban areas for labor exploitation 
				tier rating: Tier 2 Watch List - Panama is on the Tier 2 Watch List for failing to show evidence of increasing efforts to combat human trafficking, particularly with respect to prosecuting, convicting, and sentencing human traffickers for their crimes, and for failing to provide adequate victim assistance (2008) 
				Papua New Guinea
				current situation: Papua New Guinea is a country of destination for women and children from Malaysia, the Philippines, Thailand, and China trafficked for the purpose of commercial sexual exploitation; internal trafficking of women and children for the purposes of sexual exploitation and involuntary domestic servitude occurs as well 
				tier rating: Tier 3 - Papua New Guinea does not fully comply with the minimum standards for the elimination of trafficking and is not making significant efforts to do so; the current legal framework does not contain elements of crimes that characterize trafficking; the government lacks victim protection services or a systematic procedure to identify victims of trafficking; the government did not prosecute anyone in 2007 for trafficking; Papua New Guinea has not ratified the 2000 UN TIP Protocol (2008) 
				Qatar
				current situation: Qatar is a destination country for men and women from South and Southeast Asia who migrate willingly, but are subsequently trafficked into involuntary servitude as domestic workers and laborers, and, to a lesser extent, commercial sexual exploitation; the most common offense was forcing workers to accept worse contract terms than those under which they were recruited; other conditions include bonded labor, withholding of pay, restrictions on movement, arbitrary detention, and physical, mental, and sexual abuse 
				tier rating: Tier 3 - Qatar failed, for the second consecutive year, to enforce criminal laws against traffickers, or to provide an effective mechanism to identify and protect victims; it continues to detain and deport victims rather than providing them protection; the government made little progress to increase prosecutions for trafficking in a meaningful way in 2007; workers complaining of working conditions or non-payment of wages were sometimes penalized (2008) 
				Russia
				current situation: Russia is a source, transit, and destination country for men, women, and children trafficked for various purposes; it remains a significant source of women trafficked to over 50 countries for commercial sexual exploitation; Russia is also a transit and destination country for men and women trafficked from Central Asia, Eastern Europe, and North Korea to Central and Western Europe and the Middle East for purposes of forced labor and sexual exploitation; internal trafficking remains a problem in Russia with women trafficked from rural areas to urban centers for commercial sexual exploitation, and men trafficked internally and from Central Asia for forced labor in the construction and agricultural industries; debt bondage is common among trafficking victims, and child sex tourism remains a concern 
				tier rating: Tier 2 Watch List - Russia is on the Tier 2 Watch List for a fifth consecutive year for its failure to show evidence of increasing efforts to combat trafficking over the previous year, particularly in providing assistance to victims of trafficking; comprehensive trafficking victim assistance legislation, which would address key deficiencies, has been pending before the Duma since 2003 and was neither passed nor enacted in 2007 (2008) 
				Saudi Arabia
				current situation: Saudi Arabia is a destination country for workers from South and Southeast Asia who are subjected to conditions that constitute involuntary servitude including being subjected to physical and sexual abuse, non-payment of wages, confinement, and withholding of passports as a restriction on their movement; domestic workers are particularly vulnerable because some are confined to the house in which they work unable to seek help; Saudi Arabia is also a destination country for Nigerian, Yemeni, Pakistani, Afghan, Somali, Malian, and Sudanese children trafficked for forced begging and involuntary servitude as street vendors; some Nigerian women were reportedly trafficked into Saudi Arabia for commercial sexual exploitation 
				tier rating: Tier 3 - Saudi Arabia does not fully comply with the minimum standards for the elimination of trafficking and is not making significant efforts to do so; the government continues to lack adequate anti-trafficking laws and, despite evidence of widespread trafficking abuses, did not report any criminal prosecutions, convictions, or prison sentences for trafficking crimes committed against foreign domestic workers (2008) 
				South Africa
				current situation: South Africa is a source, transit, and destination country for men, women, and children trafficked for forced labor and sexual exploitation; women and girls are trafficked internally - and occasionally to European and Asian countries - for sexual exploitation; women from other African countries are trafficked to South Africa and, less frequently, onward to Europe for sexual exploitation; men and boys are trafficked from neighboring countries for forced agricultural labor; Asian and Eastern European women are trafficked to South Africa for debt-bonded sexual exploitation 
				tier rating: Tier 2 Watch List - South Africa is on the Tier 2 Watch List for a fourth consecutive year for its failure to show increasing efforts to address trafficking; the government provided inadequate data in 2007 on trafficking crimes investigated or prosecuted, or on resulting convictions or sentences; it also did not provide information on its efforts to protect victims of trafficking; the country continues to deport and/or prosecute suspected foreign victims without providing appropriate protective services (2008) 
				Sri Lanka
				current situation: Sri Lanka is a source and destination country for men and women trafficked for the purposes of involuntary servitude and commercial sexual exploitation; Sri Lankan men and women migrate willingly to the Persian Gulf, Middle East, and East Asia to work as construction workers, domestic servants, or garment factory workers, where some find themselves in situations of involuntary servitude when faced with restrictions on movement, withholding of passports, threats, physical or sexual abuse, and debt bondage; children are trafficked internally for commercial sexual exploitation and, less frequently, for forced labor 
				tier rating: Tier 2 Watch List - for a second consecutive year, Sri Lanka is on the Tier 2 Watch List for failing to provide evidence of increasing efforts to combat severe forms of human trafficking, particularly in the area of law enforcement; the government failed to arrest, prosecute, or convict any person for trafficking offenses and continued to punish some victims of trafficking for crimes committed as a result of being trafficked; Sri Lanka has not ratified the 2000 UN TIP Protocol (2008) 
				Sudan
				current situation: Sudan is a source country for men, women, and children trafficked internally for the purposes of forced labor and sexual exploitation; Sudan is also a transit and destination country for Ethiopian women trafficked abroad for domestic servitude; Sudanese women and girls are trafficked within the country, as well as possibly to Middle Eastern countries for domestic servitude; the terrorist rebel organization, Lord's Resistance Army, continues to harbor small numbers of Sudanese and Ugandan children in the southern part of the country for use as cooks, porters, and combatants; some of these children are also trafficked across borders into Uganda or the Democratic Republic of the Congo; militia groups in Darfur, some of which are linked to the government, abduct women for short periods of forced labor and to perpetrate sexual violence; during the two decades-long north-south civil war, thousands of Dinka women and children were abducted and subsequently enslaved by members of the Missiriya and Rezeigat tribes; while there have been no known new abductions of Dinka by members of Baggara tribes in the last few years, inter-tribal abductions continue in southern Sudan 
				tier rating: Tier 3 - Sudan does not fully comply with the minimum standards for the elimination of trafficking and is not making significant efforts to do so; combating human trafficking through law enforcement or prevention measures was not a priority for the government in 2007 (2008) 
				Syria
				current situation: Syria is a destination and transit country for women and children trafficked for commercial sexual exploitation and forced labor; a significant number of women and children in the large and expanding Iraqi refugee community in Syria are reportedly forced into commercial sexual exploitation by Iraqi gangs or, in some cases, their families; women from Indonesia, Sri Lanka, the Philippines, Ethiopia, and Sierra Leone are recruited for work in Syria as domestic servants, but some face conditions of involuntary servitude, including long hours, non-payment of wages, withholding of passports, restrictions on movement, threats, and physical or sexual abuse 
				tier rating: Tier 3 - Syria again failed to report any law enforcement efforts to punish trafficking offenses in 2007; in addition, the government did not offer protection services to victims of trafficking and may have arrested, prosecuted, or deported some victims for prostitution or immigration violations; Syria has not ratified the 2000 UN TIP Protocol (2008) 
				Tajikistan
				current situation: Tajikistan is a source country for women trafficked through Kyrgyzstan and Russia to the UAE, Turkey, and Russia for the purpose of commercial sexual exploitation; men are trafficked to Russia and Kazakhstan for the purpose of forced labor, primarily in the construction and agricultural industries; boys and girls are trafficked internally for various purposes, including forced labor and forced begging 
				tier rating: Tier 2 Watch List - Tajikistan is on the Tier 2 Watch List for its failure to provide evidence of increasing efforts to combat human trafficking, especially efforts to investigate, prosecute, convict, and sentence traffickers; despite evidence of low- and mid-level officials' complicity in trafficking, the government did not punish any public officials for trafficking complicity during 2007; lack of capacity and poor coordination between government institutions remained key obstacles to effective anti-trafficking efforts (2008) 
				Uzbekistan
				current situation: Uzbekistan is a source country for women and girls trafficked to Kazakhstan, Russia, Middle East, and Asia for the purpose of commercial sexual exploitation; men are trafficked to Kazakhstan and Russia for purposes of forced labor in the construction, cotton, and tobacco industries; men and women are also trafficked internally for the purposes of domestic servitude, forced labor in the agricultural and construction industries, and for commercial sexual exploitation 
				tier rating: Tier 2 Watch List - Uzbekistan is on the Tier 2 Watch List for its failure to provide evidence of increasing efforts to combat severe forms of trafficking in 2007; the government did not amend its criminal code to increase penalties for convicted traffickers; in March 2008, Uzbekistan adopted ILO Conventions on minimum age of employment and on the elimination of the worst forms of child labor and is working with the ILO on implementation; the government also demonstrated its increasing commitment to combat trafficking in March 2008 by adopting a comprehensive anti-trafficking law; Uzbekistan has not ratified the 2000 UN TIP Protocol (2008) 
				Venezuela
				current situation: Venezuela is a source, transit, and destination country for men, women, and children trafficked for the purposes of commercial sexual exploitation and forced labor; Venezuelan women and girls are trafficked within the country for sexual exploitation, lured from the nation's interior to urban and tourist areas; child prostitution in urban areas and child sex tourism in resort destinations appear to be growing; Venezuelan women and girls are trafficked for commercial sexual exploitation to Western Europe, Mexico, and Caribbean destinations 
				tier rating: Tier 2 Watch List - Venezuela is placed on the Tier 2 Watch List, up from Tier 3, as it showed greater resolve to address trafficking through law enforcement measures and prevention efforts in 2007, although stringent punishment of offenders and victim assistance remain lacking (2008) 
				World
				current situation: approximately 800,000 people, mostly women and children, are trafficked annually across national borders, not including millions trafficked within their own countries; at least 80% of the victims are female and up to 50% are minors; 75% of all victims are trafficked into commercial sexual exploitation; almost two-thirds of the global victims are trafficked intra-regionally within East Asia and the Pacific (260,000 to 280,000 people) and Europe and Eurasia (170,000 to 210,000 people) 
				Tier 2 Watch List: Albania, Argentina, Armenia, Azerbaijan, Bahrain, Burundi, Cameroon, Central African Republic, Chad, China, Costa Rica, Cote d'Ivoire, Cyprus, Democratic Republic of the Congo, Dominican Republic, Egypt, Equatorial Guinea, Gabon, The Gambia, Guatemala, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Guyana, India, Jordan, Libya, Malaysia, Montenegro, Mozambique, Niger, Panama, Republic of the Congo, Russia, South Africa, Sri Lanka, Tajikistan, Uzbekistan, Venezuela, Zambia, Zimbabwe 
				Tier 3: Algeria, Burma, Cuba, Fiji, Iran, Kuwait, Moldova, North Korea, Oman, Papua New Guinea, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, Sudan, Syria (2008) 
				Zambia
				current situation: Zambia is a source, transit, and destination country for women and children trafficked for the purposes of forced labor and sexual exploitation; many Zambian child laborers, particularly those in the agriculture, domestic service, and fishing sectors, are also victims of human trafficking; Zambian women, lured by false employment or marriage offers abroad, are trafficked to South Africa via Zimbabwe and to Europe via Malawi for sexual exploitation; Zambia is a transit point for regional trafficking of women and children, particularly from Angola to Namibia and from the Democratic Republic of the Congo to South Africa for agricultural labor 
				tier rating: Tier 2 Watch List - Zambia is on the Tier 2 Watch List for failing to provide evidence of increasing efforts to combat severe forms of trafficking, particularly in regard to its inability to bring alleged traffickers to justice through prosecutions and convictions; unlike 2006, there were no new prosecutions or convictions of alleged traffickers in 2007; government efforts to protect victims of trafficking remained extremely limited throughout the year (2008) 
				Zimbabwe
				current situation: Zimbabwe is a source, transit, and destination country for men, women, and children trafficked for the purposes of forced labor and sexual exploitation; large scale migration of Zimbabweans to surrounding countries - as they flee a progressively more desperate situation at home - has increased; rural Zimbabwean men, women, and children are trafficked internally to farms for agricultural labor and domestic servitude and to cities for domestic labor and commercial sexual exploitation; young men and boys are trafficked to South Africa for farm work, often laboring for months in South Africa without pay before "employers" have them arrested and deported as illegal immigrants; young women and girls are lured abroad with false employment offers that result in involuntary domestic servitude or commercial sexual exploitation; men, women, and children from neighboring states are trafficked through Zimbabwe en route to South Africa 
				tier rating: Tier 2 Watch List - Zimbabwe is on the Tier 2 Watch List for its failure to provide evidence of increasing efforts to combat severe forms of human trafficking, and because the absolute number of victims of severe forms of trafficking is significantly increasing; the trafficking situation in the country is worsening as more of the population is made vulnerable by declining socio-economic conditions (2008)  		
				This page was last updated on 19 March 2009
&nbsp; 
CIA - The World Factbook -- Field Listing - Geographic coordinates
&nbsp; 
				    &nbsp; 
                    Field Listing - Geographic coordinates
         Home 
          &nbsp;Reference Maps 
          &nbsp;Appendixes 
			Country
			Geographic coordinates 	
				Afghanistan
			33 00 N, 65 00 E 
				Akrotiri
			34 37 N, 32 58 E 
				Albania
			41 00 N, 20 00 E 
				Algeria
			28 00 N, 3 00 E 
				American Samoa
			14 20 S, 170 00 W 
				Andorra
			42 30 N, 1 30 E 
				Angola
			12 30 S, 18 30 E 
				Anguilla
			18 15 N, 63 10 W 
				Antarctica
			90 00 S, 0 00 E 
				Antigua and Barbuda
			17 03 N, 61 48 W 
				Arctic Ocean
			90 00 N, 0 00 E 
				Argentina
			34 00 S, 64 00 W 
				Armenia
			40 00 N, 45 00 E 
				Aruba
			12 30 N, 69 58 W 
				Ashmore and Cartier Islands
			12 14 S, 123 05 E 
				Atlantic Ocean
			0 00 N, 25 00 W 
				Australia
			27 00 S, 133 00 E 
				Austria
			47 20 N, 13 20 E 
				Azerbaijan
			40 30 N, 47 30 E 
				Bahamas, The
			24 15 N, 76 00 W 
				Bahrain
			26 00 N, 50 33 E 
				Bangladesh
			24 00 N, 90 00 E 
				Barbados
			13 10 N, 59 32 W 
				Belarus
			53 00 N, 28 00 E 
				Belgium
			50 50 N, 4 00 E 
				Belize
			17 15 N, 88 45 W 
				Benin
			9 30 N, 2 15 E 
				Bermuda
			32 20 N, 64 45 W 
				Bhutan
			27 30 N, 90 30 E 
				Bolivia
			17 00 S, 65 00 W 
				Bosnia and Herzegovina
			44 00 N, 18 00 E 
				Botswana
			22 00 S, 24 00 E 
				Bouvet Island
			54 26 S, 3 24 E 
				Brazil
			10 00 S, 55 00 W 
				British Indian Ocean Territory
			6 00 S, 71 30 E; note - Diego Garcia 7 20 S, 72 25 E 
				British Virgin Islands
			18 30 N, 64 30 W 
				Brunei
			4 30 N, 114 40 E 
				Bulgaria
			43 00 N, 25 00 E 
				Burkina Faso
			13 00 N, 2 00 W 
				Burma
			22 00 N, 98 00 E 
				Burundi
			3 30 S, 30 00 E 
				Cambodia
			13 00 N, 105 00 E 
				Cameroon
			6 00 N, 12 00 E 
				Canada
			60 00 N, 95 00 W 
				Cape Verde
			16 00 N, 24 00 W 
				Cayman Islands
			19 30 N, 80 30 W 
				Central African Republic
			7 00 N, 21 00 E 
				Chad
			15 00 N, 19 00 E 
				Chile
			30 00 S, 71 00 W 
				China
			35 00 N, 105 00 E 
				Christmas Island
			10 30 S, 105 40 E 
				Clipperton Island
			10 17 N, 109 13 W 
				Cocos (Keeling) Islands
			12 30 S, 96 50 E 
				Colombia
			4 00 N, 72 00 W 
				Comoros
			12 10 S, 44 15 E 
				Congo, Democratic Republic of the
			0 00 N, 25 00 E 
				Congo, Republic of the
			1 00 S, 15 00 E 
				Cook Islands
			21 14 S, 159 46 W 
				Coral Sea Islands
			18 00 S, 152 00 E 
				Costa Rica
			10 00 N, 84 00 W 
				Cote d'Ivoire
			8 00 N, 5 00 W 
				Croatia
			45 10 N, 15 30 E 
				Cuba
			21 30 N, 80 00 W 
				Cyprus
			35 00 N, 33 00 E 
				Czech Republic
			49 45 N, 15 30 E 
				Denmark
			56 00 N, 10 00 E 
				Dhekelia
			34 59 N, 33 45 E 
				Djibouti
			11 30 N, 43 00 E 
				Dominica
			15 25 N, 61 20 W 
				Dominican Republic
			19 00 N, 70 40 W 
				Ecuador
			2 00 S, 77 30 W 
				Egypt
			27 00 N, 30 00 E 
				El Salvador
			13 50 N, 88 55 W 
				Equatorial Guinea
			2 00 N, 10 00 E 
				Eritrea
			15 00 N, 39 00 E 
				Estonia
			59 00 N, 26 00 E 
				Ethiopia
			8 00 N, 38 00 E 
				Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas)
			51 45 S, 59 00 W 
				Faroe Islands
			62 00 N, 7 00 W 
				Fiji
			18 00 S, 175 00 E 
				Finland
			64 00 N, 26 00 E 
				France
				metropolitan France: 46 00 N, 2 00 E 
				French Guiana: 4 00 N, 53 00 W 
				Guadeloupe: 16 15 N, 61 35 W 
				Martinique: 14 40 N, 61 00 W 
				Reunion: 21 06 S, 55 36 E 
				French Polynesia
			15 00 S, 140 00 W 
				French Southern and Antarctic Lands
				Ile Amsterdam (Ile Amsterdam et Ile Saint-Paul): 37 50 S, 77 32 E 
				Ile Saint-Paul (Ile Amsterdam et Ile Saint-Paul): 38 72 S, 77 53 E 
				Iles Crozet: 46 25 S, 51 00 E 
				Iles Kerguelen: 49 15 S, 69 35 E 
				Bassas da India (Iles Eparses): 21 30 S, 39 50 E 
				Europa Island (Iles Eparses): 22 20 S, 40 22 E 
				Glorioso Islands (Iles Eparses): 11 30 S, 47 20 E 
				Juan de Nova Island (Iles Eparses): 17 03 S, 42 45 E 
				Tromelin Island (Iles Eparses): 15 52 S, 54 25 E 
				Gabon
			1 00 S, 11 45 E 
				Gambia, The
			13 28 N, 16 34 W 
				Gaza Strip
			31 25 N, 34 20 E 
				Georgia
			42 00 N, 43 30 E 
				Germany
			51 00 N, 9 00 E 
				Ghana
			8 00 N, 2 00 W 
				Gibraltar
			36 08 N, 5 21 W 
				Greece
			39 00 N, 22 00 E 
				Greenland
			72 00 N, 40 00 W 
				Grenada
			12 07 N, 61 40 W 
				Guam
			13 28 N, 144 47 E 
				Guatemala
			15 30 N, 90 15 W 
				Guernsey
			49 28 N, 2 35 W 
				Guinea
			11 00 N, 10 00 W 
				Guinea-Bissau
			12 00 N, 15 00 W 
				Guyana
			5 00 N, 59 00 W 
				Haiti
			19 00 N, 72 25 W 
				Heard Island and McDonald Islands
			53 06 S, 72 31 E 
				Holy See (Vatican City)
			41 54 N, 12 27 E 
				Honduras
			15 00 N, 86 30 W 
				Hong Kong
			22 15 N, 114 10 E 
				Hungary
			47 00 N, 20 00 E 
				Iceland
			65 00 N, 18 00 W 
				India
			20 00 N, 77 00 E 
				Indian Ocean
			20 00 S, 80 00 E 
				Indonesia
			5 00 S, 120 00 E 
				Iran
			32 00 N, 53 00 E 
				Iraq
			33 00 N, 44 00 E 
				Ireland
			53 00 N, 8 00 W 
				Isle of Man
			54 15 N, 4 30 W 
				Israel
			31 30 N, 34 45 E 
				Italy
			42 50 N, 12 50 E 
				Jamaica
			18 15 N, 77 30 W 
				Jan Mayen
			71 00 N, 8 00 W 
				Japan
			36 00 N, 138 00 E 
				Jersey
			49 15 N, 2 10 W 
				Jordan
			31 00 N, 36 00 E 
				Kazakhstan
			48 00 N, 68 00 E 
				Kenya
			1 00 N, 38 00 E 
				Kiribati
			1 25 N, 173 00 E 
				Korea, North
			40 00 N, 127 00 E 
				Korea, South
			37 00 N, 127 30 E 
				Kosovo
			42 35 N, 21 00 E 
				Kuwait
			29 30 N, 45 45 E 
				Kyrgyzstan
			41 00 N, 75 00 E 
				Laos
			18 00 N, 105 00 E 
				Latvia
			57 00 N, 25 00 E 
				Lebanon
			33 50 N, 35 50 E 
				Lesotho
			29 30 S, 28 30 E 
				Liberia
			6 30 N, 9 30 W 
				Libya
			25 00 N, 17 00 E 
				Liechtenstein
			47 16 N, 9 32 E 
				Lithuania
			56 00 N, 24 00 E 
				Luxembourg
			49 45 N, 6 10 E 
				Macau
			22 10 N, 113 33 E 
				Macedonia
			41 50 N, 22 00 E 
				Madagascar
			20 00 S, 47 00 E 
				Malawi
			13 30 S, 34 00 E 
				Malaysia
			2 30 N, 112 30 E 
				Maldives
			3 15 N, 73 00 E 
				Mali
			17 00 N, 4 00 W 
				Malta
			35 50 N, 14 35 E 
				Marshall Islands
			9 00 N, 168 00 E 
				Mauritania
			20 00 N, 12 00 W 
				Mauritius
			20 17 S, 57 33 E 
				Mayotte
			12 50 S, 45 10 E 
				Mexico
			23 00 N, 102 00 W 
				Micronesia, Federated States of
			6 55 N, 158 15 E 
				Moldova
			47 00 N, 29 00 E 
				Monaco
			43 44 N, 7 24 E 
				Mongolia
			46 00 N, 105 00 E 
				Montenegro
			42 30 N, 19 18 E 
				Montserrat
			16 45 N, 62 12 W 
				Morocco
			32 00 N, 5 00 W 
				Mozambique
			18 15 S, 35 00 E 
				Namibia
			22 00 S, 17 00 E 
				Nauru
			0 32 S, 166 55 E 
				Navassa Island
			18 25 N, 75 02 W 
				Nepal
			28 00 N, 84 00 E 
				Netherlands
			52 30 N, 5 45 E 
				Netherlands Antilles
				Bonaire: 12 12 N, 68 15 W 
				Curacao: 12 10 N, 69 00 W 
				Saba: 17 38 N, 63 14 W 
				Sint Eustatius: 17 30 N, 62 58 W 
				Sint Maarten: 18 04 N, 63 04 W 
				New Caledonia
			21 30 S, 165 30 E 
				New Zealand
			41 00 S, 174 00 E 
				Nicaragua
			13 00 N, 85 00 W 
				Niger
			16 00 N, 8 00 E 
				Nigeria
			10 00 N, 8 00 E 
				Niue
			19 02 S, 169 52 W 
				Norfolk Island
			29 02 S, 167 57 E 
				Northern Mariana Islands
			15 12 N, 145 45 E 
				Norway
			62 00 N, 10 00 E 
				Oman
			21 00 N, 57 00 E 
				Pacific Ocean
			0 00 N, 160 00 W 
				Pakistan
			30 00 N, 70 00 E 
				Palau
			7 30 N, 134 30 E 
				Panama
			9 00 N, 80 00 W 
				Papua New Guinea
			6 00 S, 147 00 E 
				Paracel Islands
			16 30 N, 112 00 E 
				Paraguay
			23 00 S, 58 00 W 
				Peru
			10 00 S, 76 00 W 
				Philippines
			13 00 N, 122 00 E 
				Pitcairn Islands
			25 04 S, 130 06 W 
				Poland
			52 00 N, 20 00 E 
				Portugal
			39 30 N, 8 00 W 
				Puerto Rico
			18 15 N, 66 30 W 
				Qatar
			25 30 N, 51 15 E 
				Romania
			46 00 N, 25 00 E 
				Russia
			60 00 N, 100 00 E 
				Rwanda
			2 00 S, 30 00 E 
				Saint Barthelemy
			17 90 N, 62 85 W 
				Saint Helena
				Saint Helena: 15 57 S, 5 42 W 
				Ascension Island: 7 57 S, 14 22 W 
				Tristan da Cunha island group: 37 15 S, 12 30 W 
				Saint Kitts and Nevis
			17 20 N, 62 45 W 
				Saint Lucia
			13 53 N, 60 58 W 
				Saint Martin
			18 05 N, 63 57 W 
				Saint Pierre and Miquelon
			46 50 N, 56 20 W 
				Saint Vincent and the Grenadines
			13 15 N, 61 12 W 
				Samoa
			13 35 S, 172 20 W 
				San Marino
			43 46 N, 12 25 E 
				Sao Tome and Principe
			1 00 N, 7 00 E 
				Saudi Arabia
			25 00 N, 45 00 E 
				Senegal
			14 00 N, 14 00 W 
				Serbia
			44 00 N, 21 00 E 
				Seychelles
			4 35 S, 55 40 E 
				Sierra Leone
			8 30 N, 11 30 W 
				Singapore
			1 22 N, 103 48 E 
				Slovakia
			48 40 N, 19 30 E 
				Slovenia
			46 07 N, 14 49 E 
				Solomon Islands
			8 00 S, 159 00 E 
				Somalia
			10 00 N, 49 00 E 
				South Africa
			29 00 S, 24 00 E 
				South Georgia and the South Sandwich Islands
			54 30 S, 37 00 W 
				Southern Ocean
			60 00 S, 90 00 E (nominally), but the Southern Ocean has the unique distinction of being a large circumpolar body of water totally encircling the continent of Antarctica; this ring of water lies between 60 degrees south latitude and the coast of Antarctica and encompasses 360 degrees of longitude 
				Spain
			40 00 N, 4 00 W 
				Spratly Islands
			8 38 N, 111 55 E 
				Sri Lanka
			7 00 N, 81 00 E 
				Sudan
			15 00 N, 30 00 E 
				Suriname
			4 00 N, 56 00 W 
				Svalbard
			78 00 N, 20 00 E 
				Swaziland
			26 30 S, 31 30 E 
				Sweden
			62 00 N, 15 00 E 
				Switzerland
			47 00 N, 8 00 E 
				Syria
			35 00 N, 38 00 E 
				Taiwan
			23 30 N, 121 00 E 
				Tajikistan
			39 00 N, 71 00 E 
				Tanzania
			6 00 S, 35 00 E 
				Thailand
			15 00 N, 100 00 E 
				Timor-Leste
			8 50 S, 125 55 E 
				Togo
			8 00 N, 1 10 E 
				Tokelau
			9 00 S, 172 00 W 
				Tonga
			20 00 S, 175 00 W 
				Trinidad and Tobago
			11 00 N, 61 00 W 
				Tunisia
			34 00 N, 9 00 E 
				Turkey
			39 00 N, 35 00 E 
				Turkmenistan
			40 00 N, 60 00 E 
				Turks and Caicos Islands
			21 45 N, 71 35 W 
				Tuvalu
			8 00 S, 178 00 E 
				Uganda
			1 00 N, 32 00 E 
				Ukraine
			49 00 N, 32 00 E 
				United Arab Emirates
			24 00 N, 54 00 E 
				United Kingdom
			54 00 N, 2 00 W 
				United States
			38 00 N, 97 00 W 
				United States Pacific Island Wildlife Refuges
				Baker Island: 0 13 N, 176 28 W 
				Howland Island: 0 48 N, 176 38 W 
				Jarvis Island: 0 23 S, 160 01 W 
				Johnston Atoll: 16 45 N, 169 31 W 
				Kingman Reef: 6 23 N, 162 25 W 
				Midway Islands: 28 12 N, 177 22 W 
				Palmyra Atoll: 5 53 N, 162 05 W 
				Uruguay
			33 00 S, 56 00 W 
				Uzbekistan
			41 00 N, 64 00 E 
				Vanuatu
			16 00 S, 167 00 E 
				Venezuela
			8 00 N, 66 00 W 
				Vietnam
			16 10 N, 107 50 E 
				Virgin Islands
			18 20 N, 64 50 W 
				Wake Island
			19 17 N, 166 39 E 
				Wallis and Futuna
			13 18 S, 176 12 W 
				West Bank
			32 00 N, 35 15 E 
				Western Sahara
			24 30 N, 13 00 W 
				Yemen
			15 00 N, 48 00 E 
				Zambia
			15 00 S, 30 00 E 
				Zimbabwe
			20 00 S, 30 00 E  		
				This page was last updated on 19 March 2009
&nbsp; 
CIA - The World Factbook -- Field Listing - Radio broadcast stations
&nbsp; 
				    &nbsp; 
                    Field Listing - Radio broadcast stations
         Home 
          &nbsp;Reference Maps 
          &nbsp;Appendixes 
			Country
			Radio broadcast stations 	
				Afghanistan
			AM 21, FM 5, shortwave 1 (broadcasts in Pashto, Dari (Afghan Persian), Urdu, and English) (2006) 
				Akrotiri
			AM NA, FM 1, shortwave NA (British Forces Broadcasting Service (BFBS) provides Radio 1 and Radio 2 service to Akrotiri, Dhekelia, and Nicosia) (2006) 
				Albania
			AM 13, FM 46, shortwave 1 (2005) 
				Algeria
			AM 25, FM 1, shortwave 8 (1999) 
				American Samoa
			AM 2, FM 3, shortwave 0 (2005) 
				Andorra
			AM 0, FM 1, shortwave 0 (radio and television broadcasts from French and Spanish stations are easily picked up in Andorra) (2007) 
				Angola
			AM 21, FM 6, shortwave 7 (2001) 
				Anguilla
			AM 2, FM 7, shortwave 0 (2004) 
				Antarctica
			FM 2, shortwave 1 (information for US bases only); note - many research stations have a local FM radio station (2007) 
				Antigua and Barbuda
			AM 4, FM 2, shortwave 0 (1998) 
				Argentina
			AM 260 (includes 10 inactive stations), FM (probably more than 1,000, mostly unlicensed), shortwave 6 (1998) 
				Armenia
			AM 9, FM 16, shortwave 1 (2006) 
				Aruba
			AM 2, FM 16, shortwave 0 (2004) 
				Australia
			AM 262, FM 345, shortwave 1 (1998) 
				Austria
			AM 2, FM 65 (plus several hundred repeaters), shortwave 1 (2001) 
				Azerbaijan
			AM 10, FM 17, shortwave 1 (1998) 
				Bahamas, The
			AM 3, FM 5, shortwave 0 (2006) 
				Bahrain
			AM 2, FM 3, shortwave 0 (1998) 
				Bangladesh
			AM 15, FM 13, shortwave 2 (2006) 
				Barbados
			AM 2, FM 6, shortwave 0 (2004) 
				Belarus
			AM 28, FM 37, shortwave 11 (1998) 
				Belgium
			AM 7, FM 79, shortwave 1 (1998) 
				Belize
			AM 1, FM 16, shortwave 0 (2006) 
				Benin
			AM 1, FM 34, shortwave 1 (2007) 
				Bermuda
			AM 5, FM 3, shortwave 0 (2005) 
				Bhutan
			AM 0, FM 9, shortwave 1 (2007) 
				Bolivia
			AM 171, FM 73, shortwave 77 (1999) 
				Bosnia and Herzegovina
			AM 8, FM 16, shortwave 1 (1998) 
				Botswana
			AM 8, FM 13, shortwave 4 (2001) 
				Brazil
			AM 1,365, FM 296, shortwave 161 (of which 91 are collocated with AM stations) (1999) 
				British Indian Ocean Territory
			AM 1, FM 2, shortwave 0 (1998) 
				British Virgin Islands
			AM 1, FM 5, shortwave 0 (2004) 
				Brunei
			AM 1, FM 2 (transmitting on 18 different frequencies), shortwave 0 (British Forces Broadcasting Service (BFBS) station transmits two FM signals with English and Nepali service) (2006) 
				Bulgaria
			AM 31, FM 63, shortwave 2 (2001) 
				Burkina Faso
			AM 2, FM 26, shortwave 3 
				Burma
			AM 1, FM 2, shortwave 3 (2007) 
				Burundi
			AM 0, FM 4, shortwave 1 (2001) 
				Cambodia
			AM 1, FM 50, shortwave NA (2008) 
				Cameroon
			AM 2, FM 9, shortwave 3 (2001) 
				Canada
			AM 245, FM 582, shortwave 6 (2004) 
				Cape Verde
			AM 0, FM 22 (plus 12 repeaters), shortwave 0 (2001) 
				Cayman Islands
			AM 1, FM 4, shortwave 0 (2004) 
				Central African Republic
			AM 1, FM 5, shortwave 1 (2001) 
				Chad
			AM 2, FM 4, shortwave 5 (2001) 
				Chile
			AM 180 (8 inactive), FM 64, shortwave 17 (1 inactive) (1998) 
				China
			AM 369, FM 259, shortwave 45 (1998) 
				Christmas Island
			AM 1, FM 2, shortwave 0 (2006) 
				Cocos (Keeling) Islands
			AM 1, FM 2, shortwave 0 (2004) 
				Colombia
			AM 454, FM 34, shortwave 27 (1999) 
				Comoros
			AM 1, FM 4, shortwave 1 (2001) 
				Congo, Democratic Republic of the
			AM 3, FM 11, shortwave 2 (2001) 
				Congo, Republic of the
			AM 1, FM 5, shortwave 3 (2001) 
				Cook Islands
			AM 1, FM 1, shortwave 0 (2004) 
				Costa Rica
			AM 65, FM 51, shortwave 19 (2002) 
				Cote d'Ivoire
			AM 2, FM 9, shortwave 3 (1998) 
				Croatia
			AM 16, FM 98, shortwave 5 (1999) 
				Cuba
			AM 169, FM 55, shortwave 1 (1998) 
				Cyprus
				area under government control: AM 5, FM 76, shortwave 0 
				area administered by Turkish Cypriots: AM 1, FM 20, shortwave 1 (2004) 
				Czech Republic
			AM 31, FM 304, shortwave 17 (2000) 
				Denmark
			AM 1, FM 355, shortwave 0 (1998) 
				Dhekelia
			AM NA, FM 1 (located in Akrotiri), shortwave NA (British Forces Broadcasting Service (BFBS) provides Radio 1 and Radio 2 service to Akrotiri, Dhekelia, and Nicosia) (2006) 
				Djibouti
			AM 1, FM 2, shortwave 0 (2001) 
				Dominica
			AM 2, FM 4, shortwave 0 (2003) 
				Dominican Republic
			AM 120, FM 56, shortwave 4 (1998) 
				Ecuador
			AM 392, FM 35, shortwave 29 (2001) 
				Egypt
			AM 42 (plus 15 repeaters), FM 11, shortwave 3 (1999) 
				El Salvador
			AM 52, FM 144, shortwave 0 (2005) 
				Equatorial Guinea
			AM 0, FM 3, shortwave 5 (2001) 
				Eritrea
			AM 2, FM NA, shortwave 2 (2000) 
				Estonia
			AM 0, FM 32, shortwave 0 (2007) 
				Ethiopia
			AM 8, FM 0, shortwave 1 (2001) 
				European Union
			AM 930, FM 13,655, shortwave 71 (1998); note - sum of individual country radio broadcast stations; there is also a European-wide station (Euroradio) 
				Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas)
			AM 1, FM 7, shortwave 0 (British Forces Broadcasting Service (BFBS) provides Radio 1 and Radio 2 service) (2006) 
				Faroe Islands
			AM 1, FM 13, shortwave 0 (1998) 
				Fiji
			AM 13, FM 40, shortwave 0 (1998) 
				Finland
			AM 2, FM 59, shortwave 2 (2008) 
				France
			AM 41, FM about 3,500 (this figure is an approximation and includes many repeaters), shortwave 2 (1998) 
				French Polynesia
			AM 2, FM 14, shortwave 2 (1998) 
				Gabon
			AM 6, FM 7 (plus 11 repeaters), shortwave 4 (2001) 
				Gambia, The
			AM 3, FM 2, shortwave 0 (2001) 
				Gaza Strip
			AM 0, FM 10, shortwave 0 (2008) 
				Georgia
			AM 7, FM 12, shortwave 4 (1998) 
				Germany
			AM 51, FM 787, shortwave 4 (1998) 
				Ghana
			AM 0, FM 86, shortwave 3 (2007) 
				Gibraltar
			AM 1, FM 5, shortwave 0 (1998) 
				Greece
			AM 26, FM 88, shortwave 4 (1998) 
				Greenland
			AM 5, FM 14, shortwave 0 (2008) 
				Grenada
			AM 2, FM 13, shortwave 0 (1998) 
				Guam
			AM 3, FM 11, shortwave 2 (2005) 
				Guatemala
			AM 130, FM 487, shortwave 15 (2000) 
				Guernsey
			AM 1, FM 1, shortwave 0 (1998) 
				Guinea
			AM 0, FM 5, shortwave 3 (2006) 
				Guinea-Bissau
			AM 1 (transmitter out of service), FM 4, shortwave 0 (2001) 
				Guyana
			AM 3, FM 3, shortwave 1 (1998) 
				Haiti
			AM 41, FM 26, shortwave 0 (1999) 
				Holy See (Vatican City)
			AM 5, FM 3, shortwave 5 (2008) 
				Honduras
			AM 241, FM 53, shortwave 12 (1998) 
				Hong Kong
			AM 6, FM 10, shortwave 0 (2008) 
				Hungary
			AM 5, FM 90, shortwave 1 (2008) 
				Iceland
			AM 3, FM about 70 (including repeaters), shortwave 1 (2008) 
				India
			AM 153, FM 91, shortwave 68 (1998) 
				Indonesia
			AM 678, FM 43, shortwave 82 (1998) 
				Iran
			AM 72, FM 6, shortwave 5 (1998) 
				Iraq
				Ireland
			AM 9, FM 106, shortwave 0 (1998) 
				Isle of Man
			AM 1, FM 1, shortwave 0 (1998) 
				Israel
			AM 23, FM 15, shortwave 2 (1998) 
				Italy
			AM about 100, FM about 4,600, shortwave 9 (1998) 
				Jamaica
			AM 10, FM 13, shortwave 0 (1998) 
				Jan Mayen
			NA; note - there is one radio and meteorological station (1998) 
				Japan
			AM 215 (plus 370 repeaters), FM 89 (plus 485 repeaters), shortwave 21 (2001) 
				Jersey
			AM NA, FM 1, shortwave 0 (UK radio broadcasts carried via local relays) (2008) 
				Jordan
			FM 31 (2007) 
				Kazakhstan
			AM 60, FM 18, shortwave 9 (2008) 
				Kenya
			AM 24, FM 18, shortwave 6 (2001) 
				Kiribati
			AM 1, FM 2, shortwave 1 (may be inactive) (2002) 
				Korea, North
			AM 17 (including 11 stations of Korean Central Broadcasting Station; North Korea has a "national intercom" cable radio station wired throughout the country that is a significant source of information for the average North Korean citizen; it is wired into most residences and workplaces and carries news and commentary), FM 14, shortwave 14 (2006) 
				Korea, South
			AM 96, FM 322, shortwave 1 (2008) 
				Kuwait
			AM 6, FM 11, shortwave 1 (1998) 
				Kyrgyzstan
			AM 3 (plus 10 repeater stations), FM 23, shortwave NA (2007) 
				Laos
			AM 7, FM 14, shortwave 2 (2006) 
				Latvia
			AM 8, FM 62, shortwave 1 (2008) 
				Lebanon
			AM 20, FM 32 (plus about a dozen unlicensed stations operating), shortwave 4 (2007) 
				Lesotho
			AM 1, FM 3, shortwave 1 (2007) 
				Liberia
			AM 0, FM 10, shortwave 2 (2007) 
				Libya
			AM 16, FM 3, shortwave 3 (2001) 
				Liechtenstein
			AM 0, FM 4, shortwave 0 (1998) 
				Lithuania
			AM 29, FM 142, shortwave 1 (2001) 
				Luxembourg
			AM 2, FM 9, shortwave 2 (1999) 
				Macau
			AM 1, FM 2, shortwave 0 (2008) 
				Macedonia
			AM 29, FM 32, shortwave 0 (2008) 
				Madagascar
			AM 2 (plus a number of repeater stations), FM 9, shortwave 6 (2001) 
				Malawi
			AM 9, FM 5 (plus 15 repeater stations), shortwave 2 (plus one shortwave station on standby) (2001) 
				Malaysia
			AM 35, FM 391, shortwave 15 (2001) 
				Maldives
			AM 1, FM 1, shortwave 1 (1998) 
				Mali
			AM 1, FM 230 (27 regional and government stations, and 203 private stations), shortwave 1 (2001) 
				Malta
			AM 1, FM 18, shortwave 6 (1999) 
				Marshall Islands
			AM 1, FM 3, shortwave 0 (additionally, the US Armed Forces Radio and Television Services (Central Pacific Network) operate one FM and one AM station on Kwajalein) (2005) 
				Mauritania
			AM 1, FM 14, shortwave 1 (2001) 
				Mauritius
			AM 4, FM 9, shortwave 0 (2001) 
				Mayotte
			AM 1, FM 5, shortwave 0 (2001) 
				Mexico
			AM 850, FM 545, shortwave 15 (2003) 
				Micronesia, Federated States of
			AM 5, FM 1, shortwave 0 (2004) 
				Moldova
			AM 2, FM 29, shortwave NA (2006) 
				Monaco
			AM 1, FM 11, shortwave 1 (2008) 
				Mongolia
			AM 7, FM 115 (includes 20 National radio broadcaster repeaters), shortwave 4 (2006) 
				Montenegro
			31 (station types NA) (2004) 
				Montserrat
			AM 1, FM 2, shortwave 0 (1998) 
				Morocco
			AM 27, FM 25, shortwave 6 (1998) 
				Mozambique
			AM 13, FM 17, shortwave 11 (2001) 
				Namibia
			AM 2, FM 39, shortwave 4 (2001) 
				Nauru
			AM 1, FM 0, shortwave 0 (1998) 
				Nepal
			AM 6, FM 80, shortwave 4 (2008) 
				Netherlands
			AM 4, FM 567, shortwave 1 (2008) 
				Netherlands Antilles
			AM 8, FM 19, shortwave 0 (2003) 
				New Caledonia
			AM 1, FM 5, shortwave 0 (1998) 
				New Zealand
			AM 124, FM 290, shortwave 4 (1998) 
				Nicaragua
			AM 63, FM 32, shortwave 1 (1998) 
				Niger
			AM 5, FM 6, shortwave 4 (2001) 
				Nigeria
			AM 83, FM 36, shortwave 11 (2001) 
				Niue
			AM 1, FM 1, shortwave 0 (1998) 
				Norfolk Island
			AM 1, FM 3, shortwave 0 (2005) 
				Northern Mariana Islands
			AM 1, FM 6, shortwave 1 (2005) 
				Norway
			AM 5, FM 160, shortwave 1 (2008) 
				Oman
			AM 3, FM 9, shortwave 2 (1999) 
				Pakistan
			AM 31, FM 68, shortwave NA (2006) 
				Palau
			AM 1, FM 4, shortwave 1 (2001) 
				Panama
			AM 101, FM 134, shortwave 0 (1998) 
				Papua New Guinea
			AM 8, FM 19, shortwave 28 (1998) 
				Paraguay
			AM 41, FM 121, shortwave 6 (3 inactive) (2006) 
				Peru
			AM 472, FM 198, shortwave 189 (1999) 
				Philippines
			AM 381, FM 628, shortwave 4 (each shortwave station operates on multiple frequencies in the language of the target audience) (2007) 
				Pitcairn Islands
			AM 1, FM 0, shortwave 0 (15 Ham radio operators (VP6)) (2004) 
				Poland
			AM 14, FM 63, shortwave 2 (2008) 
				Portugal
			AM 2, FM 63, shortwave 1 (2008) 
				Puerto Rico
			AM 74, FM 53, shortwave 0 (2008) 
				Qatar
			AM 6, FM 5, shortwave 1 (1998) 
				Romania
			698 (frequency type NA) (2006) 
				Russia
			AM 323, FM 1,500 est., shortwave 62 (2004) 
				Rwanda
			AM 0, FM 10 (two main FM programs are broadcast through a system of repeaters, international FM programming includes the BBC, VOA, and Deutchewelle) (2007) 
				Saint Helena
				Saint Helena: AM 1, FM 1, shortwave 0 
				Ascension: AM 1, FM 1, shortwave 1 (2005) 
				Saint Kitts and Nevis
			AM 3, FM 3, shortwave 0 (2003) 
				Saint Lucia
			AM 2, FM 7, shortwave 0 (2003) 
				Saint Martin
			FM 3 (2007) 
				Saint Pierre and Miquelon
			AM 1, FM 4, shortwave 0 (1998) 
				Saint Vincent and the Grenadines
			AM 1, FM 6, shortwave 0 (2004) 
				Samoa
			AM 2, FM 5, shortwave 0 (2004) 
				San Marino
			AM 0, FM 2, shortwave 0 (2008) 
				Sao Tome and Principe
			AM 1, FM 5, shortwave 1 (2001) 
				Saudi Arabia
			AM 43, FM 31, shortwave 2 (1998) 
				Senegal
			AM 8, FM 20, shortwave 1 (2001) 
				Serbia
			153 (station types NA) (2001) 
				Seychelles
			AM 1, FM 1, shortwave 2 (2001) 
				Sierra Leone
			AM 1, FM 9, shortwave 1 (2001) 
				Singapore
			AM 0, FM 19, shortwave 1 (2008) 
				Slovakia
			AM 1, FM 22, shortwave 1 (2008) 
				Slovenia
			AM 10, FM 230, shortwave 0 (2006) 
				Solomon Islands
			AM 1, FM 1, shortwave 1 (2004) 
				Somalia
			AM 0, FM 11 (also 1 station each in Puntland and Somaliland), shortwave 1 (in Mogadishu) (2001) 
				South Africa
			AM 14, FM 347 (plus 243 repeaters), shortwave 1 (1998) 
				South Georgia and the South Sandwich Islands
				Spain
			AM 18, FM 250, shortwave 2 (2008) 
				Sri Lanka
			AM 15, FM 52, shortwave 4 (2007) 
				Sudan
			AM 12, FM 1, shortwave 1 (1998) 
				Suriname
			AM 4, FM 13, shortwave 1 (1998) 
				Svalbard
			AM 1, FM 1 (plus 2 repeaters), shortwave 0 (1998) 
				Swaziland
			AM 3, FM 2 (plus 4 repeaters), shortwave 3 (2004) 
				Sweden
			AM 1, FM 124, shortwave 0 (2008) 
				Switzerland
			AM 3, FM 106 (plus many low-power stations), shortwave 3 (2008) 
				Syria
			AM 14, FM 2, shortwave 1 (1998) 
				Taiwan
			AM 21, FM 143, shortwave 1 (2008) 
				Tajikistan
			AM 8, FM 10, shortwave 2 (2002) 
				Tanzania
			AM 12, FM 11, shortwave 2 (1998) 
				Thailand
			AM 238, FM 351, shortwave 6 (2007) 
				Timor-Leste
			at least 21 (Timor-Leste has one national public broadcaster and 20 community and church radio stations - frequency type NA) 
				Togo
			AM 2, FM 9, shortwave 4 (1998) 
				Tokelau
			AM NA, FM NA, shortwave NA (one radio station provides service to all islands) (2002) 
				Tonga
			AM 1, FM 4, shortwave 1 (2001) 
				Trinidad and Tobago
			AM 4, FM 18, shortwave 0 (2001) 
				Tunisia
			AM 7, FM 38, shortwave 2 (2007) 
				Turkey
			AM 16, FM 107, shortwave 6 (2001) 
				Turkmenistan
			AM 16, FM 8, shortwave 2 (1998) 
				Turks and Caicos Islands
			AM 2, FM 7, shortwave 0 (2003) 
				Tuvalu
			AM 1, FM 1, shortwave 0 (2004) 
				Uganda
			AM 7, FM 33, shortwave 2 (2001) 
				Ukraine
			524 (station types NA) (2006) 
				United Arab Emirates
			AM 13, FM 8, shortwave 2 (2004) 
				United Kingdom
			AM 206, FM 696, shortwave 3 (2008) 
				United States
			AM 4,789, FM 8,961, shortwave 19 (2006) 
				Uruguay
			AM 93, FM 191, shortwave 7 (2005) 
				Uzbekistan
			AM 4, FM 12, shortwave 3 (2008) 
				Vanuatu
			AM 2, FM 4, shortwave 1 (2001) 
				Venezuela
			AM 201, FM NA (20 in Caracas), shortwave 11 (1998) 
				Vietnam
			AM 65, FM 7, shortwave 29 (1999) 
				Virgin Islands
			AM 6, FM 16, shortwave 0 (2005) 
				Wake Island
			AM 0, FM 0, shortwave 0 (Armed Forces Radio/Television Service (AFRTS) radio service provided by satellite (2005) 
				Wallis and Futuna
			AM 1, FM 0, shortwave 0 (2000) 
				West Bank
			AM 0, FM 25, shortwave 0 (2008) 
				Western Sahara
			AM 2, FM 0, shortwave 0 (1998) 
				World
			AM NA, FM NA, shortwave NA 
				Yemen
			AM 6, FM 1, shortwave 2 (1998) 
				Zambia
			AM 19, FM 5, shortwave 4 (2001) 
				Zimbabwe
			AM 7, FM 20 (plus 17 repeater stations), shortwave 1 (1998)  		
				This page was last updated on 19 March 2009
&nbsp; 
CIA - The World Factbook -- Field Listing - Ethnic groups
&nbsp; 
				    &nbsp; 
                    Field Listing - Ethnic groups
         Home 
          &nbsp;Reference Maps 
          &nbsp;Appendixes 
			Country
			Ethnic groups (%) 
				Afghanistan
			Pashtun 42%, Tajik 27%, Hazara 9%, Uzbek 9%, Aimak 4%, Turkmen 3%, Baloch 2%, other 4% 
				Albania
			Albanian 95%, Greek 3%, other 2% (Vlach, Roma (Gypsy), Serb, Macedonian, Bulgarian) (1989 est.) 
				note: in 1989, other estimates of the Greek population ranged from 1% (official Albanian statistics) to 12% (from a Greek organization) 
				Algeria
			Arab-Berber 99%, European less than 1% 
				note: almost all Algerians are Berber in origin, not Arab; the minority who identify themselves as Berber live mostly in the mountainous region of Kabylie east of Algiers; the Berbers are also Muslim but identify with their Berber rather than Arab cultural heritage; Berbers have long agitated, sometimes violently, for autonomy; the government is unlikely to grant autonomy but has offered to begin sponsoring teaching Berber language in schools 
				American Samoa
			native Pacific islander 91.6%, Asian 2.8%, white 1.1%, mixed 4.2%, other 0.3% (2000 census) 
				Andorra
			Spanish 43%, Andorran 33%, Portuguese 11%, French 7%, other 6% (1998) 
				Angola
			Ovimbundu 37%, Kimbundu 25%, Bakongo 13%, mestico (mixed European and native African) 2%, European 1%, other 22% 
				Anguilla
			black (predominant) 90.1%, mixed, mulatto 4.6%, white 3.7%, other 1.5% (2001 census) 
				Antigua and Barbuda
			black 91%, mixed 4.4%, white 1.7%, other 2.9% (2001 census) 
				Argentina
			white (mostly Spanish and Italian) 97%, mestizo (mixed white and Amerindian ancestry), Amerindian, or other non-white groups 3% 
				Armenia
			Armenian 97.9%, Yezidi (Kurd) 1.3%, Russian 0.5%, other 0.3% (2001 census) 
				Aruba
			mixed white/Caribbean Amerindian 80%, other 20% 
				Australia
			white 92%, Asian 7%, aboriginal and other 1% 
				Austria
			Austrians 91.1%, former Yugoslavs 4% (includes Croatians, Slovenes, Serbs, and Bosniaks), Turks 1.6%, German 0.9%, other or unspecified 2.4% (2001 census) 
				Azerbaijan
			Azeri 90.6%, Dagestani 2.2%, Russian 1.8%, Armenian 1.5%, other 3.9% (1999 census) 
				note: almost all Armenians live in the separatist Nagorno-Karabakh region 
				Bahamas, The
			black 85%, white 12%, Asian and Hispanic 3% 
				Bahrain
			Bahraini 62.4%, non-Bahraini 37.6% (2001 census) 
				Bangladesh
			Bengali 98%, other 2% (includes tribal groups, non-Bengali Muslims) (1998) 
				Barbados
			black 90%, white 4%, Asian and mixed 6% 
				Belarus
			Belarusian 81.2%, Russian 11.4%, Polish 3.9%, Ukrainian 2.4%, other 1.1% (1999 census) 
				Belgium
			Fleming 58%, Walloon 31%, mixed or other 11% 
				Belize
			mestizo 48.7%, Creole 24.9%, Maya 10.6%, Garifuna 6.1%, other 9.7% (2000 census) 
				Benin
			Fon and related 39.2%, Adja and related 15.2%, Yoruba and related 12.3%, Bariba and related 9.2%, Peulh and related 7%, Ottamari and related 6.1%, Yoa-Lokpa and related 4%, Dendi and related 2.5%, other 1.6% (includes Europeans), unspecified 2.9% (2002 census) 
				Bermuda
			black 54.8%, white 34.1%, mixed 6.4%, other races 4.3%, unspecified 0.4% (2000 census) 
				Bhutan
			Bhote 50%, ethnic Nepalese 35% (includes Lhotsampas - one of several Nepalese ethnic groups), indigenous or migrant tribes 15% 
				Bolivia
			Quechua 30%, mestizo (mixed white and Amerindian ancestry) 30%, Aymara 25%, white 15% 
				Bosnia and Herzegovina
			Bosniak 48%, Serb 37.1%, Croat 14.3%, other 0.6% (2000) 
				note: Bosniak has replaced Muslim as an ethnic term in part to avoid confusion with the religious term Muslim - an adherent of Islam 
				Botswana
			Tswana (or Setswana) 79%, Kalanga 11%, Basarwa 3%, other, including Kgalagadi and white 7% 
				Brazil
			white 53.7%, mulatto (mixed white and black) 38.5%, black 6.2%, other (includes Japanese, Arab, Amerindian) 0.9%, unspecified 0.7% (2000 census) 
				British Virgin Islands
			black 83.4%, white 7%, mixed 5.4%, Indian 3.4%, other 0.8% (1991 census) 
				Brunei
			Malay 66.3%, Chinese 11.2%, indigenous 3.4%, other 19.1% (2004 est.) 
				Bulgaria
			Bulgarian 83.9%, Turk 9.4%, Roma 4.7%, other 2% (including Macedonian, Armenian, Tatar, Circassian) (2001 census) 
				Burkina Faso
			Mossi over 40%, other approximately 60% (includes Gurunsi, Senufo, Lobi, Bobo, Mande, and Fulani) 
				Burma
			Burman 68%, Shan 9%, Karen 7%, Rakhine 4%, Chinese 3%, Indian 2%, Mon 2%, other 5% 
				Burundi
			Hutu (Bantu) 85%, Tutsi (Hamitic) 14%, Twa (Pygmy) 1%, Europeans 3,000, South Asians 2,000 
				Cambodia
			Khmer 90%, Vietnamese 5%, Chinese 1%, other 4% 
				Cameroon
			Cameroon Highlanders 31%, Equatorial Bantu 19%, Kirdi 11%, Fulani 10%, Northwestern Bantu 8%, Eastern Nigritic 7%, other African 13%, non-African less than 1% 
				Canada
			British Isles origin 28%, French origin 23%, other European 15%, Amerindian 2%, other, mostly Asian, African, Arab 6%, mixed background 26% 
				Cape Verde
			Creole (mulatto) 71%, African 28%, European 1% 
				Cayman Islands
			mixed 40%, white 20%, black 20%, expatriates of various ethnic groups 20% 
				Central African Republic
			Baya 33%, Banda 27%, Mandjia 13%, Sara 10%, Mboum 7%, M'Baka 4%, Yakoma 4%, other 2% 
				Chad
			Sara 27.7%, Arab 12.3%, Mayo-Kebbi 11.5%, Kanem-Bornou 9%, Ouaddai 8.7%, Hadjarai 6.7%, Tandjile 6.5%, Gorane 6.3%, Fitri-Batha 4.7%, other 6.4%, unknown 0.3% (1993 census) 
				Chile
			white and white-Amerindian 95.4%, Mapuche 4%, other indigenous groups 0.6% (2002 census) 
				China
			Han Chinese 91.5%, Zhuang, Manchu, Hui, Miao, Uyghur, Tujia, Yi, Mongol, Tibetan, Buyi, Dong, Yao, Korean, and other nationalities 8.5% (2000 census) 
				Christmas Island
			Chinese 70%, European 20%, Malay 10% 
				note: no indigenous population (2001) 
				Cocos (Keeling) Islands
			Europeans, Cocos Malays 
				Colombia
			mestizo 58%, white 20%, mulatto 14%, black 4%, mixed black-Amerindian 3%, Amerindian 1% 
				Comoros
			Antalote, Cafre, Makoa, Oimatsaha, Sakalava 
				Congo, Democratic Republic of the
			over 200 African ethnic groups of which the majority are Bantu; the four largest tribes - Mongo, Luba, Kongo (all Bantu), and the Mangbetu-Azande (Hamitic) make up about 45% of the population 
				Congo, Republic of the
			Kongo 48%, Sangha 20%, M'Bochi 12%, Teke 17%, Europeans and other 3% 
				Cook Islands
			Cook Island Maori (Polynesian) 87.7%, part Cook Island Maori 5.8%, other 6.5% (2001 census) 
				Costa Rica
			white (including mestizo) 94%, black 3%, Amerindian 1%, Chinese 1%, other 1% 
				Cote d'Ivoire
			Akan 42.1%, Voltaiques or Gur 17.6%, Northern Mandes 16.5%, Krous 11%, Southern Mandes 10%, other 2.8% (includes 130,000 Lebanese and 14,000 French) (1998) 
				Croatia
			Croat 89.6%, Serb 4.5%, other 5.9% (including Bosniak, Hungarian, Slovene, Czech, and Roma) (2001 census) 
				Cuba
			white 65.1%, mulatto and mestizo 24.8%, black 10.1% (2002 census) 
				Cyprus
			Greek 77%, Turkish 18%, other 5% (2001) 
				Czech Republic
			Czech 90.4%, Moravian 3.7%, Slovak 1.9%, other 4% (2001 census) 
				Denmark
			Scandinavian, Inuit, Faroese, German, Turkish, Iranian, Somali 
				Djibouti
			Somali 60%, Afar 35%, other 5% (includes French, Arab, Ethiopian, and Italian) 
				Dominica
			black 86.8%, mixed 8.9%, Carib Amerindian 2.9%, white 0.8%, other 0.7% (2001 census) 
				Dominican Republic
			mixed 73%, white 16%, black 11% 
				Ecuador
			mestizo (mixed Amerindian and white) 65%, Amerindian 25%, Spanish and others 7%, black 3% 
				Egypt
			Egyptian 99.6%, other 0.4% (2006 census) 
				El Salvador
			mestizo 90%, white 9%, Amerindian 1% 
				Equatorial Guinea
			Fang 85.7%, Bubi 6.5%, Mdowe 3.6%, Annobon 1.6%, Bujeba 1.1%, other 1.4% (1994 census) 
				Eritrea
			Tigrinya 50%, Tigre and Kunama 40%, Afar 4%, Saho (Red Sea coast dwellers) 3%, other 3% 
				Estonia
			Estonian 67.9%, Russian 25.6%, Ukrainian 2.1%, Belarusian 1.3%, Finn 0.9%, other 2.2% (2000 census) 
				Ethiopia
			Oromo 32.1%, Amara 30.1%, Tigraway 6.2%, Somalie 5.9%, Guragie 4.3%, Sidama 3.5%, Welaita 2.4%, other 15.4% (1994 census) 
				Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas)
			British 
				Faroe Islands
			Scandinavian 
				Fiji
			Fijian 57.3% (predominantly Melanesian with a Polynesian admixture), Indian 37.6%, Rotuman 1.2%, other 3.9% (European, other Pacific Islanders, Chinese) (2007 census) 
				Finland
			Finn 93.4%, Swede 5.6%, Russian 0.5%, Estonian 0.3%, Roma (Gypsy) 0.1%, Sami 0.1% (2006) 
				France
			Celtic and Latin with Teutonic, Slavic, North African, Indochinese, Basque minorities 
				overseas departments: black, white, mulatto, East Indian, Chinese, Amerindian 
				French Polynesia
			Polynesian 78%, Chinese 12%, local French 6%, metropolitan French 4% 
				Gabon
			Bantu tribes, including four major tribal groupings (Fang, Bapounou, Nzebi, Obamba); other Africans and Europeans, 154,000, including 10,700 French and 11,000 persons of dual nationality 
				Gambia, The
			African 99% (Mandinka 42%, Fula 18%, Wolof 16%, Jola 10%, Serahuli 9%, other 4%), non-African 1% (2003 census) 
				Gaza Strip
			Palestinian Arab 
				Georgia
			Georgian 83.8%, Azeri 6.5%, Armenian 5.7%, Russian 1.5%, other 2.5% (2002 census) 
				Germany
			German 91.5%, Turkish 2.4%, other 6.1% (made up largely of Greek, Italian, Polish, Russian, Serbo-Croatian, Spanish) 
				Ghana
			Akan 45.3%, Mole-Dagbon 15.2%, Ewe 11.7%, Ga-Dangme 7.3%, Guan 4%, Gurma 3.6%, Grusi 2.6%, Mande-Busanga 1%, other tribes 1.4%, other 7.8% (2000 census) 
				Gibraltar
			Spanish, Italian, English, Maltese, Portuguese, German, North Africans 
				Greece
			population: Greek 93%, other (foreign citizens) 7% (2001 census) 
				note: percents represent citizenship, since Greece does not collect data on ethnicity 
				Greenland
			Greenlander 88% (Inuit and Greenland-born whites), Danish and others 12% (2000) 
				Grenada
			black 82%, mixed black and European 13%, European and East Indian 5%, and trace of Arawak/Carib Amerindian 
				Guam
			Chamorro 37.1%, Filipino 26.3%, other Pacific islander 11.3%, white 6.9%, other Asian 6.3%, other ethnic origin or race 2.3%, mixed 9.8% (2000 census) 
				Guatemala
			Mestizo (mixed Amerindian-Spanish - in local Spanish called Ladino) and European 59.4%, K'iche 9.1%, Kaqchikel 8.4%, Mam 7.9%, Q'eqchi 6.3%, other Mayan 8.6%, indigenous non-Mayan 0.2%, other 0.1% (2001 census) 
				Guernsey
			UK and Norman-French descent with small percentages from other European countries 
				Guinea
			Peuhl 40%, Malinke 30%, Soussou 20%, smaller ethnic groups 10% 
				Guinea-Bissau
			African 99% (includes Balanta 30%, Fula 20%, Manjaca 14%, Mandinga 13%, Papel 7%), European and mulatto less than 1% 
				Guyana
			East Indian 43.5%, black (African) 30.2%, mixed 16.7%, Amerindian 9.1%, other 0.5% (2002 census) 
				Haiti
			black 95%, mulatto and white 5% 
				Holy See (Vatican City)
			Italians, Swiss, other 
				Honduras
			mestizo (mixed Amerindian and European) 90%, Amerindian 7%, black 2%, white 1% 
				Hong Kong
			Chinese 95%, Filipino 1.6%, Indonesian 1.3%, other 2.1% (2006 census) 
				Hungary
			Hungarian 92.3%, Roma 1.9%, other or unknown 5.8% (2001 census) 
				Iceland
			homogeneous mixture of descendants of Norse and Celts 94%, population of foreign origin 6% 
				India
			Indo-Aryan 72%, Dravidian 25%, Mongoloid and other 3% (2000) 
				Indonesia
			Javanese 40.6%, Sundanese 15%, Madurese 3.3%, Minangkabau 2.7%, Betawi 2.4%, Bugis 2.4%, Banten 2%, Banjar 1.7%, other or unspecified 29.9% (2000 census) 
				Iran
			Persian 51%, Azeri 24%, Gilaki and Mazandarani 8%, Kurd 7%, Arab 3%, Lur 2%, Baloch 2%, Turkmen 2%, other 1% 
				Iraq
			Arab 75%-80%, Kurdish 15%-20%, Turkoman, Assyrian, or other 5% 
				Ireland
			Irish 87.4%, other white 7.5%, Asian 1.3%, black 1.1%, mixed 1.1%, unspecified 1.6% (2006 census) 
				Isle of Man
			Manx (Norse-Celtic descent), Britons 
				Israel
			Jewish 76.4% (of which Israel-born 67.1%, Europe/America-born 22.6%, Africa-born 5.9%, Asia-born 4.2%), non-Jewish 23.6% (mostly Arab) (2004) 
				Italy
			Italian (includes small clusters of German-, French-, and Slovene-Italians in the north and Albanian-Italians and Greek-Italians in the south) 
				Jamaica
			black 91.2%, mixed 6.2%, other or unknown 2.6% (2001 census) 
				Japan
			Japanese 98.5%, Koreans 0.5%, Chinese 0.4%, other 0.6% 
				note: up to 230,000 Brazilians of Japanese origin migrated to Japan in the 1990s to work in industries; some have returned to Brazil (2004) 
				Jersey
			Jersey 51.1%, Britons 34.8%, Irish, French, and other white 6.6%, Portuguese/Madeiran 6.4%, other 1.1% (2001 census) 
				Jordan
			Arab 98%, Circassian 1%, Armenian 1% 
				Kazakhstan
			Kazakh (Qazaq) 53.4%, Russian 30%, Ukrainian 3.7%, Uzbek 2.5%, German 2.4%, Tatar 1.7%, Uygur 1.4%, other 4.9% (1999 census) 
				Kenya
			Kikuyu 22%, Luhya 14%, Luo 13%, Kalenjin 12%, Kamba 11%, Kisii 6%, Meru 6%, other African 15%, non-African (Asian, European, and Arab) 1% 
				Kiribati
			Micronesian 98.8%, other 1.2% (2000 census) 
				Korea, North
			racially homogeneous; there is a small Chinese community and a few ethnic Japanese 
				Korea, South
			homogeneous (except for about 20,000 Chinese) 
				Kosovo
			Albanians 88%, Serbs 7%, other 5% (Bosniak, Gorani, Roma, Turk, Ashkali, Egyptian) 
				Kuwait
			Kuwaiti 45%, other Arab 35%, South Asian 9%, Iranian 4%, other 7% 
				Kyrgyzstan
			Kyrgyz 64.9%, Uzbek 13.8%, Russian 12.5%, Dungan 1.1%, Ukrainian 1%, Uygur 1%, other 5.7% (1999 census) 
				Laos
			Lao 55%, Khmou 11%, Hmong 8%, other (over 100 minor ethnic groups) 26% (2005 census) 
				Latvia
			Latvian 57.7%, Russian 29.6%, Belarusian 4.1%, Ukrainian 2.7%, Polish 2.5%, Lithuanian 1.4%, other 2% (2002) 
				Lebanon
			Arab 95%, Armenian 4%, other 1% 
				note: many Christian Lebanese do not identify themselves as Arab but rather as descendents of the ancient Canaanites and prefer to be called Phoenicians 
				Lesotho
			Sotho 99.7%, Europeans, Asians, and other 0.3%, 
				Liberia
			indigenous African 95% (including Kpelle, Bassa, Gio, Kru, Grebo, Mano, Krahn, Gola, Gbandi, Loma, Kissi, Vai, Dei, Bella, Mandingo, and Mende), Americo-Liberians 2.5% (descendants of immigrants from the US who had been slaves), Congo People 2.5% (descendants of immigrants from the Caribbean who had been slaves) 
				Libya
			Berber and Arab 97%, other 3% (includes Greeks, Maltese, Italians, Egyptians, Pakistanis, Turks, Indians, and Tunisians) 
				Liechtenstein
			Liechtensteiner 65.6%, other 34.4% (2000 census) 
				Lithuania
			Lithuanian 83.4%, Polish 6.7%, Russian 6.3%, other or unspecified 3.6% (2001 census) 
				Luxembourg
			Luxembourger 63.1%, Portuguese 13.3%, French 4.5%, Italian 4.3%, German 2.3%, other EU 7.3%, other 5.2% (2000 census) 
				Macau
			Chinese 94.3%, other 5.7% (includes Macanese (mixed Portuguese and Asian ancestry)) (2006 census) 
				Macedonia
			Macedonian 64.2%, Albanian 25.2%, Turkish 3.9%, Roma (Gypsy) 2.7%, Serb 1.8%, other 2.2% (2002 census) 
				Madagascar
			Malayo-Indonesian (Merina and related Betsileo), Cotiers (mixed African, Malayo-Indonesian, and Arab ancestry - Betsimisaraka, Tsimihety, Antaisaka, Sakalava), French, Indian, Creole, Comoran 
				Malawi
			Chewa, Nyanja, Tumbuka, Yao, Lomwe, Sena, Tonga, Ngoni, Ngonde, Asian, European 
				Malaysia
			Malay 50.4%, Chinese 23.7%, indigenous 11%, Indian 7.1%, others 7.8% (2004 est.) 
				Maldives
			South Indians, Sinhalese, Arabs 
				Mali
			Mande 50% (Bambara, Malinke, Soninke), Peul 17%, Voltaic 12%, Songhai 6%, Tuareg and Moor 10%, other 5% 
				Malta
			Maltese (descendants of ancient Carthaginians and Phoenicians with strong elements of Italian and other Mediterranean stock) 
				Marshall Islands
			Marshallese 92.1%, mixed Marshallese 5.9%, other 2% (2006) 
				Mauritania
			mixed Moor/black 40%, Moor 30%, black 30% 
				Mauritius
			Indo-Mauritian 68%, Creole 27%, Sino-Mauritian 3%, Franco-Mauritian 2% 
				Mayotte
			NA 
				Mexico
			mestizo (Amerindian-Spanish) 60%, Amerindian or predominantly Amerindian 30%, white 9%, other 1% 
				Micronesia, Federated States of
			Chuukese 48.8%, Pohnpeian 24.2%, Kosraean 6.2%, Yapese 5.2%, Yap outer islands 4.5%, Asian 1.8%, Polynesian 1.5%, other 6.4%, unknown 1.4% (2000 census) 
				Moldova
			Moldovan/Romanian 78.2%, Ukrainian 8.4%, Russian 5.8%, Gagauz 4.4%, Bulgarian 1.9%, other 1.3% (2004 census) 
				note: internal disputes with ethnic Slavs in the Transnistrian region 
				Monaco
			French 47%, Monegasque 16%, Italian 16%, other 21% 
				Mongolia
			Mongol (mostly Khalkha) 94.9%, Turkic (mostly Kazakh) 5%, other (including Chinese and Russian) 0.1% (2000) 
				Montenegro
			Montenegrin 43%, Serbian 32%, Bosniak 8%, Albanian 5%, other (Muslims, Croats, Roma (Gypsy)) 12% (2003 census) 
				Montserrat
			black, white 
				Morocco
			Arab-Berber 99.1%, other 0.7%, Jewish 0.2% 
				Mozambique
			African 99.66% (Makhuwa, Tsonga, Lomwe, Sena, and others), Europeans 0.06%, Euro-Africans 0.2%, Indians 0.08% 
				Namibia
			black 87.5%, white 6%, mixed 6.5% 
				note: about 50% of the population belong to the Ovambo tribe and 9% to the Kavangos tribe; other ethnic groups include Herero 7%, Damara 7%, Nama 5%, Caprivian 4%, Bushmen 3%, Baster 2%, Tswana 0.5% 
				Nauru
			Nauruan 58%, other Pacific Islander 26%, Chinese 8%, European 8% 
				Nepal
			Chhettri 15.5%, Brahman-Hill 12.5%, Magar 7%, Tharu 6.6%, Tamang 5.5%, Newar 5.4%, Muslim 4.2%, Kami 3.9%, Yadav 3.9%, other 32.7%, unspecified 2.8% (2001 census) 
				Netherlands
			Dutch 80.7%, EU 5%, Indonesian 2.4%, Turkish 2.2%, Surinamese 2%, Moroccan 2%, Netherlands Antilles & Aruba 0.8%, other 4.8% (2008 est.) 
				Netherlands Antilles
			mixed black 85%, other 15% (includes Carib Amerindian, white, East Asian) 
				New Caledonia
			Melanesian 44.1%, European 34.1%, Wallisian & Futunian 9%, Tahitian 2.6%, Indonesian 2.5%, Vietnamese 1.4%, Ni-Vanuatu 1.1%, other 5.2% (1996 census) 
				New Zealand
			European 69.8%, Maori 7.9%, Asian 5.7%, Pacific islander 4.4%, other 0.5%, mixed 7.8%, unspecified 3.8% (2001 census) 
				Nicaragua
			mestizo (mixed Amerindian and white) 69%, white 17%, black 9%, Amerindian 5% 
				Niger
			Haoussa 55.4%, Djerma Sonrai 21%, Tuareg 9.3%, Peuhl 8.5%, Kanouri Manga 4.7%, other 1.2% (2001 census) 
				Nigeria
			Nigeria, Africa's most populous country, is composed of more than 250 ethnic groups; the following are the most populous and politically influential: Hausa and Fulani 29%, Yoruba 21%, Igbo (Ibo) 18%, Ijaw 10%, Kanuri 4%, Ibibio 3.5%, Tiv 2.5% 
				Niue
			Niuen 78.2%, Pacific islander 10.2%, European 4.5%, mixed 3.9%, Asian 0.2%, unspecified 3% (2001 census) 
				Norfolk Island
			descendants of the Bounty mutineers, Australian, New Zealander, Polynesian 
				Northern Mariana Islands
			Asian 56.3%, Pacific islander 36.3%, Caucasian 1.8%, other 0.8%, mixed 4.8% (2000 census) 
				Norway
			Norwegian 94.4% (includes Sami, about 60,000), other European 3.6%, other 2% (2007 estimate) 
				Oman
			Arab, Baluchi, South Asian (Indian, Pakistani, Sri Lankan, Bangladeshi), African 
				Pakistan
			Punjabi 44.68%, Pashtun (Pathan) 15.42%, Sindhi 14.1%, Sariaki 8.38%, Muhagirs 7.57%, Balochi 3.57%, other 6.28% 
				Palau
			Palauan (Micronesian with Malayan and Melanesian admixtures) 69.9%, Filipino 15.3%, Chinese 4.9%, other Asian 2.4%, white 1.9%, Carolinian 1.4%, other Micronesian 1.1%, other or unspecified 3.2% (2000 census) 
				Panama
			mestizo (mixed Amerindian and white) 70%, Amerindian and mixed (West Indian) 14%, white 10%, Amerindian 6% 
				Papua New Guinea
			Melanesian, Papuan, Negrito, Micronesian, Polynesian 
				Paraguay
			mestizo (mixed Spanish and Amerindian) 95%, other 5% 
				Peru
			Amerindian 45%, mestizo (mixed Amerindian and white) 37%, white 15%, black, Japanese, Chinese, and other 3% 
				Philippines
			Tagalog 28.1%, Cebuano 13.1%, Ilocano 9%, Bisaya/Binisaya 7.6%, Hiligaynon Ilonggo 7.5%, Bikol 6%, Waray 3.4%, other 25.3% (2000 census) 
				Pitcairn Islands
			descendants of the Bounty mutineers and their Tahitian wives 
				Poland
			Polish 96.7%, German 0.4%, Belarusian 0.1%, Ukrainian 0.1%, other and unspecified 2.7% (2002 census) 
				Portugal
			homogeneous Mediterranean stock; citizens of black African descent who immigrated to mainland during decolonization number less than 100,000; since 1990 East Europeans have entered Portugal 
				Puerto Rico
			white (mostly Spanish origin) 80.5%, black 8%, Amerindian 0.4%, Asian 0.2%, mixed 4.2%, other 6.7% (2000 census) 
				Qatar
			Arab 40%, Indian 18%, Pakistani 18%, Iranian 10%, other 14% 
				Romania
			Romanian 89.5%, Hungarian 6.6%, Roma 2.5%, Ukrainian 0.3%, German 0.3%, Russian 0.2%, Turkish 0.2%, other 0.4% (2002 census) 
				Russia
			Russian 79.8%, Tatar 3.8%, Ukrainian 2%, Bashkir 1.2%, Chuvash 1.1%, other or unspecified 12.1% (2002 census) 
				Rwanda
			Hutu (Bantu) 84%, Tutsi (Hamitic) 15%, Twa (Pygmy) 1% 
				Saint Barthelemy
			white, Creole (mulatto), black, Guadeloupe Mestizo (French-East Asia) 
				Saint Helena
			African descent 50%, white 25%, Chinese 25% 
				Saint Kitts and Nevis
			predominantly black; some British, Portuguese, and Lebanese 
				Saint Lucia
			black 82.5%, mixed 11.9%, East Indian 2.4%, other or unspecified 3.1% (2001 census) 
				Saint Martin
			creole (mulatto), black, Guadeloupe Mestizo (French-East Asia), white, East Indian 
				Saint Pierre and Miquelon
			Basques and Bretons (French fishermen) 
				Saint Vincent and the Grenadines
			black 66%, mixed 19%, East Indian 6%, European 4%, Carib Amerindian 2%, other 3% 
				Samoa
			Samoan 92.6%, Euronesians (persons of European and Polynesian blood) 7%, Europeans 0.4% (2001 census) 
				San Marino
			Sammarinese, Italian 
				Sao Tome and Principe
			mestico, angolares (descendants of Angolan slaves), forros (descendants of freed slaves), servicais (contract laborers from Angola, Mozambique, and Cape Verde), tongas (children of servicais born on the islands), Europeans (primarily Portuguese) 
				Saudi Arabia
			Arab 90%, Afro-Asian 10% 
				Senegal
			Wolof 43.3%, Pular 23.8%, Serer 14.7%, Jola 3.7%, Mandinka 3%, Soninke 1.1%, European and Lebanese 1%, other 9.4% 
				Serbia
			Serb 82.9%, Hungarian 3.9%, Romany (Gypsy) 1.4%, Yugoslavs 1.1%, Bosniaks 1.8%, Montenegrin 0.9%, other 8% (2002 census) 
				Seychelles
			mixed French, African, Indian, Chinese, and Arab 
				Sierra Leone
			20 African ethnic groups 90% (Temne 30%, Mende 30%, other 30%), Creole (Krio) 10% (descendants of freed Jamaican slaves who were settled in the Freetown area in the late-18th century), refugees from Liberia's recent civil war, small numbers of Europeans, Lebanese, Pakistanis, and Indians 
				Singapore
			Chinese 76.8%, Malay 13.9%, Indian 7.9%, other 1.4% (2000 census) 
				Slovakia
			Slovak 85.8%, Hungarian 9.7%, Roma 1.7%, Ruthenian/Ukrainian 1%, other and unspecified 1.8% (2001 census) 
				Slovenia
			Slovene 83.1%, Serb 2%, Croat 1.8%, Bosniak 1.1%, other or unspecified 12% (2002 census) 
				Solomon Islands
			Melanesian 94.5%, Polynesian 3%, Micronesian 1.2%, other 1.1%, unspecified 0.2% (1999 census) 
				Somalia
			Somali 85%, Bantu and other non-Somali 15% (including Arabs 30,000) 
				South Africa
			black African 79%, white 9.6%, colored 8.9%, Indian/Asian 2.5% (2001 census) 
				Spain
			composite of Mediterranean and Nordic types 
				Sri Lanka
			Sinhalese 73.8%, Sri Lankan Moors 7.2%, Indian Tamil 4.6%, Sri Lankan Tamil 3.9%, other 0.5%, unspecified 10% (2001 census provisional data) 
				Sudan
			black 52%, Arab 39%, Beja 6%, foreigners 2%, other 1% 
				Suriname
			Hindustani (also known locally as "East Indians"; their ancestors emigrated from northern India in the latter part of the 19th century) 37%, Creole (mixed white and black) 31%, Javanese 15%, "Maroons" (their African ancestors were brought to the country in the 17th and 18th centuries as slaves and escaped to the interior) 10%, Amerindian 2%, Chinese 2%, white 1%, other 2% 
				Svalbard
			Norwegian 55.4%, Russian and Ukrainian 44.3%, other 0.3% (1998) 
				Swaziland
			African 97%, European 3% 
				Sweden
			indigenous population: Swedes with Finnish and Sami minorities; foreign-born or first-generation immigrants: Finns, Yugoslavs, Danes, Norwegians, Greeks, Turks 
				Switzerland
			German 65%, French 18%, Italian 10%, Romansch 1%, other 6% 
				Syria
			Arab 90.3%, Kurds, Armenians, and other 9.7% 
				Taiwan
			Taiwanese (including Hakka) 84%, mainland Chinese 14%, indigenous 2% 
				Tajikistan
			Tajik 79.9%, Uzbek 15.3%, Russian 1.1%, Kyrgyz 1.1%, other 2.6% (2000 census) 
				Tanzania
			mainland - African 99% (of which 95% are Bantu consisting of more than 130 tribes), other 1% (consisting of Asian, European, and Arab); Zanzibar - Arab, African, mixed Arab and African 
				Thailand
			Thai 75%, Chinese 14%, other 11% 
				Timor-Leste
			Austronesian (Malayo-Polynesian), Papuan, small Chinese minority 
				Togo
			African (37 tribes; largest and most important are Ewe, Mina, and Kabre) 99%, European and Syrian-Lebanese less than 1% 
				Tokelau
			Polynesian 
				Tonga
			Polynesian, Europeans 
				Trinidad and Tobago
			Indian (South Asian) 40%, African 37.5%, mixed 20.5%, other 1.2%, unspecified 0.8% (2000 census) 
				Tunisia
			Arab 98%, European 1%, Jewish and other 1% 
				Turkey
			Turkish 80%, Kurdish 20% (estimated) 
				Turkmenistan
			Turkmen 85%, Uzbek 5%, Russian 4%, other 6% (2003) 
				Turks and Caicos Islands
			black 90%, mixed, European, or North American 10% 
				Tuvalu
			Polynesian 96%, Micronesian 4% 
				Uganda
			Baganda 16.9%, Banyakole 9.5%, Basoga 8.4%, Bakiga 6.9%, Iteso 6.4%, Langi 6.1%, Acholi 4.7%, Bagisu 4.6%, Lugbara 4.2%, Bunyoro 2.7%, other 29.6% (2002 census) 
				Ukraine
			Ukrainian 77.8%, Russian 17.3%, Belarusian 0.6%, Moldovan 0.5%, Crimean Tatar 0.5%, Bulgarian 0.4%, Hungarian 0.3%, Romanian 0.3%, Polish 0.3%, Jewish 0.2%, other 1.8% (2001 census) 
				United Arab Emirates
			Emirati 19%, other Arab and Iranian 23%, South Asian 50%, other expatriates (includes Westerners and East Asians) 8% (1982) 
				note: less than 20% are UAE citizens (1982) 
				United Kingdom
			white (of which English 83.6%, Scottish 8.6%, Welsh 4.9%, Northern Irish 2.9%) 92.1%, black 2%, Indian 1.8%, Pakistani 1.3%, mixed 1.2%, other 1.6% (2001 census) 
				United States
			white 79.96%, black 12.85%, Asian 4.43%, Amerindian and Alaska native 0.97%, native Hawaiian and other Pacific islander 0.18%, two or more races 1.61% (July 2007 estimate) 
				note: a separate listing for Hispanic is not included because the US Census Bureau considers Hispanic to mean a person of Latin American descent (including persons of Cuban, Mexican, or Puerto Rican origin) living in the US who may be of any race or ethnic group (white, black, Asian, etc.); about 15.1% of the total US population is Hispanic 
				Uruguay
			white 88%, mestizo 8%, black 4%, Amerindian (practically nonexistent) 
				Uzbekistan
			Uzbek 80%, Russian 5.5%, Tajik 5%, Kazakh 3%, Karakalpak 2.5%, Tatar 1.5%, other 2.5% (1996 est.) 
				Vanuatu
			Ni-Vanuatu 98.5%, other 1.5% (1999 Census) 
				Venezuela
			Spanish, Italian, Portuguese, Arab, German, African, indigenous people 
				Vietnam
			Kinh (Viet) 86.2%, Tay 1.9%, Thai 1.7%, Muong 1.5%, Khome 1.4%, Hoa 1.1%, Nun 1.1%, Hmong 1%, others 4.1% (1999 census) 
				Virgin Islands
			black 76.2%, white 13.1%, Asian 1.1%, other 6.1%, mixed 3.5% (2000 census) 
				Wallis and Futuna
			Polynesian 
				West Bank
			Palestinian Arab and other 83%, Jewish 17% 
				Western Sahara
			Arab, Berber 
				Yemen
			predominantly Arab; but also Afro-Arab, South Asians, Europeans 
				Zambia
			African 98.7%, European 1.1%, other 0.2% 
				Zimbabwe
			African 98% (Shona 82%, Ndebele 14%, other 2%), mixed and Asian 1%, white less than 1%  		
				This page was last updated on 19 March 2009
&nbsp; 
CIA - The World Factbook -- Field Listing - Currency (code)
	UNCLASSIFIED
&nbsp; 
				    &nbsp; 
                    Field Listing - Currency (code)
         Home 
          &nbsp;Reference Maps 
          &nbsp;Appendixes 
			Country
			Currency (code) 	
				Afghanistan
			afghani (AFA) 
				Akrotiri
			euro (EUR) adopted 1 January 2008; note - the Cypriot pound (CYP) formerly used 
				Albania
			lek (ALL) 
				note: the plural of lek is leke 
				Algeria
			Algerian dinar (DZD) 
				American Samoa
			US dollar (USD) 
				Andorra
			euro (EUR) 
				Angola
			kwanza (AOA) 
				Anguilla
			East Caribbean dollar (XCD) 
				Antigua and Barbuda
			East Caribbean dollar (XCD) 
				Argentina
			Argentine peso (ARS) 
				Armenia
			dram (AMD) 
				Aruba
			Aruban guilder/florin (AWG) 
				Australia
			Australian dollar (AUD) 
				Austria
			euro (EUR) 
				Azerbaijan
			Azerbaijani manat (AZN) 
				Bahamas, The
			Bahamian dollar (BSD) 
				Bahrain
			Bahraini dinar (BHD) 
				Bangladesh
			taka (BDT) 
				Barbados
			Barbadian dollar (BBD) 
				Belarus
			Belarusian ruble (BYB/BYR) 
				Belgium
			euro (EUR) 
				Belize
			Belizean dollar (BZD) 
				Benin
			Communaute Financiere Africaine franc (XOF); note - responsible authority is the Central Bank of the West African States 
				Bermuda
			Bermudian dollar (BMD) 
				Bhutan
			ngultrum (BTN); Indian rupee (INR) 
				Bolivia
			boliviano (BOB) 
				Bosnia and Herzegovina
			konvertibilna marka (convertible mark) (BAM) 
				Botswana
			pula (BWP) 
				Brazil
			real (BRL) 
				British Indian Ocean Territory
			US Dollar (USD) 
				British Virgin Islands
			US dollar (USD) 
				Brunei
			Bruneian dollar (BND) 
				Bulgaria
			lev (BGN) 
				Burkina Faso
			Communaute Financiere Africaine franc (XOF); note - responsible authority is the Central Bank of the West African States 
				Burma
			kyat (MMK) 
				Burundi
			Burundi franc (BIF) 
				Cambodia
			riel (KHR) 
				Cameroon
			Communaute Financiere Africaine franc (XAF); note - responsible authority is the Bank of the Central African States 
				Canada
			Canadian dollar (CAD) 
				Cape Verde
			Cape Verdean escudo (CVE) 
				Cayman Islands
			Caymanian dollar (KYD) 
				Central African Republic
			Communaute Financiere Africaine franc (XAF); note - responsible authority is the Bank of the Central African States 
				Chad
			Communaute Financiere Africaine franc (XAF); note - responsible authority is the Bank of the Central African States 
				Chile
			Chilean peso (CLP) 
				China
			Renminbi (RMB); note - also referred to by the unit yuan (CNY) 
				Christmas Island
			Australian dollar (AUD) 
				Cocos (Keeling) Islands
			Australian dollar (AUD) 
				Colombia
			Colombian peso (COP) 
				Comoros
			Comoran franc (KMF) 
				Congo, Democratic Republic of the
			Congolese franc (CDF) 
				Congo, Republic of the
			Communaute Financiere Africaine franc (XAF); note - responsible authority is the Bank of the Central African States 
				Cook Islands
			NZ dollar (NZD) 
				Costa Rica
			Costa Rican colon (CRC) 
				Cote d'Ivoire
			Communaute Financiere Africaine franc (XOF); note - responsible authority is the Central Bank of the West African States 
				Croatia
			kuna (HRK) 
				Cuba
			Cuban peso (CUP) and Convertible peso (CUC) 
				Cyprus
			Cypriot pound (CYP); euro (EUR) after 1 January 2008 
				Czech Republic
			Czech koruna (CZK) 
				Denmark
			Danish krone (DKK) 
				Dhekelia
			euro (EUR) adopted 1 January 2008; note - the Cypriot pound (CYP) formerly used 
				Djibouti
			Djiboutian franc (DJF) 
				Dominica
			East Caribbean dollar (XCD) 
				Dominican Republic
			Dominican peso (DOP) 
				Ecuador
			US dollar (USD) 
				Egypt
			Egyptian pound (EGP) 
				El Salvador
			US dollar (USD) 
				Equatorial Guinea
			Communaute Financiere Africaine franc (XAF); note - responsible authority is the Bank of the Central African States 
				Eritrea
			nakfa (ERN) 
				Estonia
			Estonian kroon (EEK) 
				Ethiopia
			birr (ETB) 
				European Union
			euro, British pound, Bulgarian lev, Czech koruna, Danish krone, Estonian kroon, Hungarian forint, Latvian lat, Lithuanian litas, Polish zloty, Romanian leu, Slovak koruna, Swedish krona 
				Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas)
			Falkland pound (FKP) 
				Faroe Islands
			Danish krone (DKK) 
				Fiji
			Fijian dollar (FJD) 
				Finland
			euro (EUR) 
				France
			euro (EUR) 
				French Polynesia
			Comptoirs Francais du Pacifique franc (XPF) 
				Gabon
			Communaute Financiere Africaine franc (XAF); note - responsible authority is the Bank of the Central African States 
				Gambia, The
			dalasi (GMD) 
				Gaza Strip
			new Israeli shekel (ILS) 
				Georgia
			lari (GEL) 
				Germany
			euro (EUR) 
				Ghana
			Ghana cedi (GHC) 
				Gibraltar
			Gibraltar pound (GIP) 
				Greece
			euro (EUR) 
				Greenland
			Danish krone (DKK) 
				Grenada
			East Caribbean dollar (XCD) 
				Guam
			US dollar (USD) 
				Guatemala
			quetzal (GTQ), US dollar (USD), others allowed 
				Guernsey
			Guernsey pound 
				note: the British pound is also legal tender 
				Guinea
			Guinean franc (GNF) 
				Guinea-Bissau
			Communaute Financiere Africaine franc (XOF); note - responsible authority is the Central Bank of the West African States 
				Guyana
			Guyanese dollar (GYD) 
				Haiti
			gourde (HTG) 
				Holy See (Vatican City)
			euro (EUR) 
				Honduras
			lempira (HNL) 
				Hong Kong
			Hong Kong dollar (HKD) 
				Hungary
			forint (HUF) 
				Iceland
			Icelandic krona (ISK) 
				India
			Indian rupee (INR) 
				Indonesia
			Indonesian rupiah (IDR) 
				Iran
			Iranian rial (IRR) 
				Iraq
			New Iraqi dinar (NID) as of 22 January 2004 
				Ireland
			euro (EUR) 
				Isle of Man
			Isle of Man pound (IMP), also known as the Manx pound 
				note: the British pound is also legal tender, but change is given in IMP 
				Israel
			new Israeli shekel (ILS); note - NIS is the currency abbreviation; ILS is the International Organization for Standardization (ISO) code for the NIS 
				Italy
			euro (EUR) 
				Jamaica
			Jamaican dollar (JMD) 
				Japan
			yen (JPY) 
				Jersey
			Jersey pound 
				note: the British pound is also legal tender 
				Jordan
			Jordanian dinar (JOD) 
				Kazakhstan
			tenge (KZT) 
				Kenya
			Kenyan shilling (KES) 
				Kiribati
			Australian dollar (AUD) 
				Korea, North
			North Korean won (KPW) 
				Korea, South
			South Korean won (KRW) 
				Kosovo
			euro (EUR); Serbian Dinar (RSD) is also in circulation 
				Kuwait
			Kuwaiti dinar (KD) 
				Kyrgyzstan
			som (KGS) 
				Laos
			kip (LAK) 
				Latvia
			lat (LVL) 
				Lebanon
			Lebanese pound (LBP) 
				Lesotho
			loti (LSL); South African rand (ZAR) 
				Liberia
			Liberian dollar (LRD) 
				Libya
			Libyan dinar (LYD) 
				Liechtenstein
			Swiss franc (CHF) 
				Lithuania
			litas (LTL) 
				Luxembourg
			euro (EUR) 
				Macau
			pataca (MOP) 
				Macedonia
			Macedonian denar (MKD) 
				Madagascar
			ariary (MGA) 
				Malawi
			Malawian kwacha (MWK) 
				Malaysia
			ringgit (MYR) 
				Maldives
			rufiyaa (MVR) 
				Mali
			Communaute Financiere Africaine franc (XOF); note - responsible authority is the Central Bank of the West African States 
				Malta
			euro (EUR) as of 1 January 2008; Maltese lira (MTL) before then 
				Marshall Islands
			US dollar (USD) 
				Mauritania
			ouguiya (MRO) 
				Mauritius
			Mauritian rupee (MUR) 
				Mayotte
			euro (EUR) 
				Mexico
			Mexican peso (MXN) 
				Micronesia, Federated States of
			US dollar (USD) 
				Moldova
			Moldovan leu (MDL) 
				Monaco
			euro (EUR) 
				Mongolia
			togrog/tugrik (MNT) 
				Montenegro
			euro (EUR) 
				Montserrat
			East Caribbean dollar (XCD) 
				Morocco
			Moroccan dirham (MAD) 
				Mozambique
			metical (MZM) 
				Namibia
			Namibian dollar (NAD); South African rand (ZAR) 
				Nauru
			Australian dollar (AUD) 
				Nepal
			Nepalese rupee (NPR) 
				Netherlands
			euro (EUR) 
				Netherlands Antilles
			Netherlands Antillean guilder (ANG) 
				New Caledonia
			Comptoirs Francais du Pacifique franc (XPF) 
				New Zealand
			New Zealand dollar (NZD) 
				Nicaragua
			gold cordoba (NIO) 
				Niger
			Communaute Financiere Africaine franc (XOF); note - responsible authority is the Central Bank of the West African States 
				Nigeria
			naira (NGN) 
				Niue
			New Zealand dollar (NZD) 
				Norfolk Island
			Australian dollar (AUD) 
				Northern Mariana Islands
			US dollar (USD) 
				Norway
			Norwegian krone (NOK) 
				Oman
			Omani rial (OMR) 
				Pakistan
			Pakistani rupee (PKR) 
				Palau
			US dollar (USD) 
				Panama
			balboa (PAB); US dollar (USD) 
				Papua New Guinea
			kina (PGK) 
				Paraguay
			guarani (PYG) 
				Peru
			nuevo sol (PEN) 
				Philippines
			Philippine peso (PHP) 
				Pitcairn Islands
			New Zealand dollar (NZD) 
				Poland
			zloty (PLN) 
				Portugal
			euro (EUR) 
				Puerto Rico
			US dollar (USD) 
				Qatar
			Qatari rial (QAR) 
				Romania
			"new" leu (RON) was introduced in 2005; "old" leu (ROL) was phased out in 2006; note - because of currency revaluation, 10,000 ROL = 1 RON 
				Russia
			Russian ruble (RUB) 
				Rwanda
			Rwandan franc (RWF) 
				Saint Barthelemy
			euro (EUR); note - US dollar (USD) widely used 
				Saint Helena
			Saint Helenian pound (SHP) 
				Saint Kitts and Nevis
			East Caribbean dollar (XCD) 
				Saint Lucia
			East Caribbean dollar (XCD) 
				Saint Martin
			euro (EUR); note - US dollar (USD) widely used 
				Saint Pierre and Miquelon
			euro (EUR) 
				Saint Vincent and the Grenadines
			East Caribbean dollar (XCD) 
				Samoa
			tala (SAT) 
				San Marino
			euro (EUR) 
				Sao Tome and Principe
			dobra (STD) 
				Saudi Arabia
			Saudi riyal (SAR) 
				Senegal
			Communaute Financiere Africaine franc (XOF); note - responsible authority is the Central Bank of the West African States 
				Serbia
			Serbian dinar (RSD) 
				Seychelles
			Seychelles rupee (SCR) 
				Sierra Leone
			leone (SLL) 
				Singapore
			Singapore dollar (SGD) 
				Slovakia
			Slovak koruna (SKK) 
				Slovenia
			euro (EUR) 
				note: on 1 January 2007, the euro became Slovenia's currency; both the tolar and the euro were in circulation from 1 January until 15 January 2007 
				Solomon Islands
			Solomon Islands dollar (SBD) 
				Somalia
			Somali shilling (SOS) 
				South Africa
			rand (ZAR) 
				Spain
			euro (EUR) 
				Sri Lanka
			Sri Lankan rupee (LKR) 
				Sudan
			Sudanese pounds (SDG) 
				Suriname
			Surinam dollar (SRD) 
				Svalbard
			Norwegian krone (NOK) 
				Swaziland
			lilangeni (SZL) 
				Sweden
			Swedish krona (SEK) 
				Switzerland
			Swiss franc (CHF) 
				Syria
			Syrian pound (SYP) 
				Taiwan
			New Taiwan dollar (TWD) 
				Tajikistan
			somoni (TJS) 
				Tanzania
			Tanzanian shilling (TZS) 
				Thailand
			baht (THB) 
				Timor-Leste
			US dollar (USD) 
				Togo
			Communaute Financiere Africaine franc (XOF); note - responsible authority is the Central Bank of the West African States 
				Tokelau
			New Zealand dollar (NZD) 
				Tonga
			pa'anga (TOP) 
				Trinidad and Tobago
			Trinidad and Tobago dollar (TTD) 
				Tunisia
			Tunisian dinar (TND) 
				Turkey
			Turkish lira (TRY); old Turkish lira (TRL) before 1 January 2005 
				Turkmenistan
			Turkmen manat (TMM) 
				Turks and Caicos Islands
			US dollar (USD) 
				Tuvalu
			Australian dollar (AUD); note - there is also a Tuvaluan dollar 
				Uganda
			Ugandan shilling (UGX) 
				Ukraine
			hryvnia (UAH) 
				United Arab Emirates
			Emirati dirham (AED) 
				United Kingdom
			British pound (GBP) 
				United States
			US dollar (USD) 
				Uruguay
			Uruguayan peso (UYU) 
				Uzbekistan
			soum (UZS) 
				Vanuatu
			vatu (VUV) 
				Venezuela
			bolivar (VEB) 
				Vietnam
			dong (VND) 
				Virgin Islands
			US dollar (USD) 
				Wallis and Futuna
			Comptoirs Francais du Pacifique franc (XPF) 
				West Bank
			new Israeli shekel (ILS); Jordanian dinar (JOD) 
				Western Sahara
			Moroccan dirham (MAD) 
				Yemen
			Yemeni rial (YER) 
				Zambia
			Zambian kwacha (ZMK) 
				Zimbabwe
			Zimbabwean dollar (ZWD)  		
				This page was last updated on 5 January 2009
&nbsp; 
	UNCLASSIFIED
CIA - The World Factbook -- Field Listing - Disputes - international
&nbsp; 
				    &nbsp; 
                    Field Listing - Disputes - international
         Home 
          &nbsp;Reference Maps 
          &nbsp;Appendixes 
			Country
			Disputes - international 	
				Afghanistan
			Pakistan has built fences in some portions of its border with Afghanistan which remains open in some areas to foreign terrorists and other illegal activities 
				Albania
			the Albanian Government calls for the protection of the rights of ethnic Albanians in neighboring countries, and the peaceful resolution of interethnic disputes; some ethnic Albanian groups in neighboring countries advocate for a "greater Albania," but the idea has little appeal among Albanian nationals; the mass emigration of unemployed Albanians remains a problem for developed countries, chiefly Greece and Italy 
				Algeria
			Algeria, and many other states, rejects Moroccan administration of Western Sahara; the Polisario Front, exiled in Algeria, represents the Sahrawi Arab Democratic Republic; Algeria's border with Morocco remains an irritant to bilateral relations, each nation accusing the other of harboring militants and arms smuggling; Algeria remains concerned about armed bandits operating throughout the Sahel who sometimes destabilize southern Algerian towns; dormant disputes include Libyan claims of about 32,000 sq km still reflected on its maps of southeastern Algeria and the FLN's assertions of a claim to Chirac Pastures in southeastern Morocco 
				American Samoa
			Tokelau periodically asserts claims to American Samoa's Swains Island (Olohega), such as in its 2006 draft independence constitution 
				Andorra
			none 
				Angola
			Cabindan separatists continue to return to the Angolan exclave from exile in neighboring states and Europe since the 2006 ceasefire and peace agreement 
				Anguilla
			none 
				Antarctica
			the Antarctic Treaty freezes, and most states do not recognize, the land and maritime territorial claims made by Argentina, Australia, Chile, France, New Zealand, Norway, and the United Kingdom (some overlapping) for three-fourths of the continent; the US and Russia reserve the right to make claims; no claims have been made in the sector between 90 degrees west and 150 degrees west; the International Whaling Commission created a sancturary around the entire continent to deter catches by countries claiming to conduct scientific whaling; Australia has established a similar preserve in the waters around its territorial claim 
				Antigua and Barbuda
			none 
				Arctic Ocean
			the littoral states are engaged in various stages of demonstrating the limits of their continental shelves beyond 200 nautical miles from their declared baselines in accordance with Article 76, paragraph 8, of the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea; record summer melting of sea ice in the Arctic has restimulated interest in maritime shipping lanes and sea floor exploration 
				Argentina
			Argentina continues to assert its claims to the UK-administered Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas), South Georgia, and the South Sandwich Islands in its constitution, forcibly occupying the Falklands in 1982, but in 1995 agreed no longer to seek settlement by force; territorial claim in Antarctica partially overlaps UK and Chilean claims; unruly region at convergence of Argentina-Brazil-Paraguay borders is locus of money laundering, smuggling, arms and illegal narcotics trafficking, and fundraising for extremist organizations; uncontested dispute between Brazil and Uruguay over Braziliera/Brasiliera Island in the Quarai/Cuareim River leaves the tripoint with Argentina in question; in 2006, Argentina went to the ICJ to protest, on environmental grounds, the construction of two pulp mills in Uruguay on the Uruguay River, which forms the boundary; both parties presented their pleadings in 2007 with Argentina's reply in January and Uruguay's rejoinder in July 2008; the joint boundary commission, established by Chile and Argentina in 2001 has yet to map and demarcate the delimited boundary in the inhospitable Andean Southern Ice Field (Campo de Hielo Sur) 
				Armenia
			Armenia supports ethnic Armenian secessionists in Nagorno-Karabakh and since the early 1990s, has militarily occupied 16% of Azerbaijan - Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE) continues to mediate dispute; over 800,000 mostly ethnic Azerbaijanis were driven from the occupied lands and Armenia; about 230,000 ethnic Armenians were driven from their homes in Azerbaijan into Armenia and Nagorno-Karabakh; Azerbaijan seeks transit route through Armenia to connect to Naxcivan exclave; border with Turkey remains closed over Nagorno-Karabakh dispute; ethnic Armenian groups in Javakheti region of Georgia seek greater autonomy; Armenians continue to emigrate, primarily to Russia, seeking employment 
				Aruba
			none 
				Ashmore and Cartier Islands
			as the closest Australian territory to Indonesia, these islands became the target of human traffickers for the landing of illegal immigrants; in 2001, the Australian government removed these islands from the Australian Migration Zone making illegal arrivals ineligible for temporary visas and entry into Australia 
				Atlantic Ocean
			some maritime disputes (see littoral states) 
				Australia
			Timor-Leste and Australia agreed in 2005 to defer the disputed portion of the boundary for fifty years and to split hydrocarbon revenues evenly outside the Joint Petroleum Development Area covered by the 2002 Timor Sea Treaty; dispute with Timor-Leste hampers creation of a revised maritime boundary with Indonesia in the Timor Sea; regional states continue to express concern over Australia's 2004 declaration of a 1,000-nautical mile-wide maritime identification zone; Australia asserts land and maritime claims to Antarctica; in 2004 Australia submitted its claims to Commission on the Limits of the Continental Shelf (CLCS) to extend its continental margins covering over 3.37 million square kilometers, expanding its seabed roughly thirty percent more than its claimed exclusive economic zone; since 2003, Australia has led the Regional Assistance Mission to the Solomon Islands (RAMSI) to maintain civil and political order and reinforce regional security 
				Austria
			while threats of international legal action never materialized in 2007, 915,220 Austrians, with the support of the newly elected Freedom Party, signed a petition in January 2008, demanding that Austria block the Czech Republic's accession to the EU unless Prague closes its nuclear power plant in Temelin, bordering Austria 
				Azerbaijan
			Armenia supports ethnic Armenian secessionists in Nagorno-Karabakh and since the early 1990s has militarily occupied 16% of Azerbaijan; over 800,000 mostly ethnic Azerbaijanis were driven from the occupied lands and Armenia; about 230,000 ethnic Armenians were driven from their homes in Azerbaijan into Armenia and Nagorno-Karabakh; Azerbaijan seeks transit route through Armenia to connect to Naxcivan exclave; Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE) continues to mediate dispute; Azerbaijan, Kazakhstan, and Russia have ratified Caspian seabed delimitation treaties based on equidistance, while Iran continues to insist on an even one-fifth allocation and challenges Azerbaijan's hydrocarbon exploration in disputed waters; bilateral talks continue with Turkmenistan on dividing the seabed and contested oilfields in the middle of the Caspian; Azerbaijan and Georgia continue to discuss the alignment of their boundary at certain crossing areas
				Bahamas, The
			disagrees with the US on the alignment the northern axis of a potential maritime boundary; continues to monitor and interdict drug dealers and Haitian and Cuban refugees in Bahamian waters 
				Bahrain
			none 
				Bangladesh
			discussions with India remain stalled to delimit a small section of river boundary, exchange territory for 51 small Bangladeshi exclaves in India and 111 small Indian exclaves in Bangladesh, allocate divided villages, and stop illegal cross-border trade, migration, violence, and transit of terrorists through the porous border; Bangladesh protests India's fencing and walling off high-traffic sections of the porous boundary; a joint Bangladesh-India boundary commission resurveyed and reconstructed 92 missing pillars in 2007; dispute with India over New Moore/South Talpatty/Purbasha Island in the Bay of Bengal deters maritime boundary delimitation; after 21 years, Bangladesh resumes talks with Burma on delimiting a maritime boundary 
				Barbados
			Barbados and Trinidad and Tobago abide by the April 2006 Permanent Court of Arbitration decision delimiting a maritime boundary and limiting catches of flying fish in Trinidad and Tobago's exclusive economic zone; joins other Caribbean states to counter Venezuela's claim that Aves Island sustains human habitation, a criterion under the UN Convention on the Law of the Sea (UNCLOS), which permits Venezuela to extend its EEZ/continental shelf over a large portion of the eastern Caribbean Sea 
				Belarus
			Boundary demarcated with Latvia and Lithuania in 2006; 1997 boundary delimitation treaty with Ukraine remains unratified over unresolved financial claims, preventing demarcation and diminishing border security 
				Belgium
			none 
				Belize
			OAS-initiated Agreement on the Framework for Negotiations and Confidence Building Measures saw cooperation in repatriation of Guatemalan squatters and other areas, but Guatemalan land and maritime claims in Belize and the Caribbean Sea remain unresolved; the Line of Adjacency created under the 2002 Differendum serves in lieu of the contiguous international boundary to control squatting in the sparsely inhabited rain forests of Belize's border region; Honduras claims Belizean-administered Sapodilla Cays in its constitution but agreed to a joint ecological park under the Differendum 
				Benin
			in September 2007, Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS) intervened to attempt to resolve the dispute over two villages along the Benin-Burkina Faso border that remain from 2005 ICJ decision; much of Benin-Niger boundary, including tripoint with Nigeria, remains undemarcated; in 2005, Nigeria ceded thirteen villages to Benin, but border relations remain strained by rival cross-border gang clashes; talks continue between Benin and Togo on funding the Adjrala hydroelectric dam on the Mona River 
				Bermuda
			none 
				Bhutan
			Bhutan cooperates with India to expel Indian Nagaland separatists; lacking any treaty describing the boundary, Bhutan and China continue negotiations to establish a common boundary alignment to resolve territorial disputes arising from substantial cartographic discrepancies, the largest of which lie in Bhutan's northwest and along the Chumbi salient 
				Bolivia
			Chile and Peru rebuff Bolivia's reactivated claim to restore the Atacama corridor, ceded to Chile in 1884, but Chile offers instead unrestricted but not sovereign maritime access through Chile for Bolivian natural gas and other commodities; an accord placed the long-disputed Isla Surez/Ilha de Guajar-Mirim, a fluvial island on the Ro Mamor, under Bolivian administration in 1958, but sovereignty remains in dispute 
				Bosnia and Herzegovina
			sections along the Drina River remain in dispute between Bosnia and Herzegovina and Serbia; discussions continue with Croatia on several small disputed sections of the boundary related to maritime access that hinder final ratification of the 1999 border agreement 
				Botswana
			Botswana still struggles to seal its border from thousands of Zimbabweans who flee economic collapse and political persecution; Namibia has long supported, and in 2004 Zimbabwe dropped objections to, plans between Botswana and Zambia to build a bridge over the Zambezi River at Kazungula crossing, thereby de facto recognizing the short, but not clearly delimited, Botswana-Zambia boundary 
				Bouvet Island
			none 
				Brazil
			unruly region at convergence of Argentina-Brazil-Paraguay borders is locus of money laundering, smuggling, arms and illegal narcotics trafficking, and fundraising for extremist organizations; uncontested boundary dispute with Uruguay over Isla Brasilera at the confluence of the Quarai/Cuareim and Invernada rivers, that form a tripoint with Argentina; the Itaip Dam reservoir covers over a once contested section of Brazil-Paraguay boundary west of Guaira Falls on the Rio Parana; an accord placed the long-disputed Isla Surez/Ilha de Guajar-Mirim, a fluvial island on the Ro Mamor, under Bolivian administration in 1958, but sovereignty remains in dispute 
				British Indian Ocean Territory
			Mauritius claims the Chagos Archipelago including Diego Garcia; in 2001, the former inhabitants of the Chagos Archipelago, evicted in 1967 and 1973 and now residing chiefly in Mauritius, were granted UK citizenship and the right to repatriation; in May 2007, the UK Court of Appeals upheld the May 2006 High Court of London judgment reversing the UK government's 2004 Orders of Council that banned habitation on the islands; a small group of Chagossians visited Diego Garcia in April 2006; repatriation is complicated by the exclusive US military lease of Diego Garcia that restricts access to the largest viable island in the chain 
				British Virgin Islands
			none 
				Brunei
			Brunei and Malaysia agreed in September 2008 to resolve their offshore and deepwater seabed dispute, resume hydrocarbon exploration, and renounce any territorial claims on land; Brunei established an exclusive economic fishing zone encompassing Louisa Reef in the southern Spratly Islands in 1984, but makes no public territorial claim to the offshore reefs; the 2002 "Declaration on the Conduct of Parties in the South China Sea" has eased tensions in the Spratly Islands but falls short of a legally binding "code of conduct" desired by several of the disputants 
				Bulgaria
			none 
				Burkina Faso
			in September 2007, Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS) intervened to attempt to resolve the dispute over two villages along the Benin-Burkina Faso border that remain from 2005 ICJ decision; in recent years citizens and rogue security forces rob and harass local populations on both sides of the poorly-defined Burkina Faso-Niger border; despite the presence of over 9,000 UN forces (UNOCI) in Cote d'Ivoire since 2004, ethnic conflict continues to spread into neighboring states who can no longer send their migrant workers to work in Ivorian cocoa plantations 
				Burma
			over half of Burma's population consists of diverse ethnic groups who have substantial numbers of kin in neighboring countries; Thailand must deal with Karen and other ethnic refugees, asylum seekers, and rebels, as well as illegal cross-border activities from Burma; Thailand is studying the feasibility of jointly constructing the Hatgyi Dam on the Salween River near the border with Burma; citing environmental, cultural, and social concerns, China is reconsidering construction of 13 dams on the Salween River but energy-starved Burma with backing from Thailand remains intent on building five hydro-electric dams downstream, despite identical regional and international protests; India seeks cooperation from Burma to keep Indian Nagaland separatists, such as the United Liberation Front of Assam, from hiding in remote Burmese Uplands; after 21 years, Bangladesh resumes talks with Burma on delimiting a maritime boundary in January 2008 
				Burundi
			Burundi and Rwanda dispute sections of border on the Akanyaru/Kanyaru and the Kagera/Nyabarongo rivers, which have changed course since the 1960s, when the boundary was delimited; cross-border conflicts among Tutsi, Hutu, other ethnic groups, associated political rebels, armed gangs, and various government forces persist in the Great Lakes region 
				Cambodia
			Cambodia and Thailand dispute sections of boundary with missing boundary markers and claims of Thai encroachments into Cambodian territory; maritime boundary with Vietnam is hampered by unresolved dispute over sovereignty of offshore islands; Thailand accuses Cambodia of obstructing inclusion of Thai areas near Preah Vihear temple ruins, awarded to Cambodia by ICJ decision in 1962, as part of a planned UN World Heritage site 
				Cameroon
			Joint Border Commission with Nigeria reviewed 2002 ICJ ruling on the entire boundary and bilaterally resolved differences, including June 2006 Greentree Agreement that immediately ceded sovereignty of the Bakassi Peninsula to Cameroon with a full phase-out of Nigerian control and patriation of residents in 2008; Cameroon and Nigeria agree on maritime delimitation in March 2008; sovereignty dispute between Equatorial Guinea and Cameroon over an island at the mouth of the Ntem River; only Nigeria and Cameroon have heeded the Lake Chad Commission's admonition to ratify the delimitation treaty, which also includes the Chad-Niger and Niger-Nigeria boundaries 
				Canada
			managed maritime boundary disputes with the US at Dixon Entrance, Beaufort Sea, Strait of Juan de Fuca, and the Gulf of Maine including the disputed Machias Seal Island and North Rock; Canada, the US, and other countries dispute the status of the Northwest Passage; US works closely with Canada to intensify security measures for monitoring and controlling legal and illegal movement of people, transport, and commodities across the international border; sovereignty dispute with Denmark over Hans Island in the Kennedy Channel between Ellesmere Island and Greenland; commencing the collection of technical evidence for submission to the Commission on the Limits of the Continental Shelf in support of claims for continental shelf beyond 200 nautical miles from its declared baselines in the Arctic, as stipulated in Article 76, paragraph 8, of the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea 
				Cape Verde
			none 
				Cayman Islands
			none 
				Central African Republic
			periodic skirmishes over water and grazing rights among related pastoral populations along the border with southern Sudan persist 
				Chad
			since 2003, Janjawid armed militia and the Sudanese military have driven hundreds of thousands of Darfur residents into Chad; Chad remains an important mediator in the Sudanese civil conflict, reducing tensions with Sudan arising from cross-border banditry; Chadian Aozou rebels reside in southern Libya; only Nigeria and Cameroon have heeded the Lake Chad Commission's admonition to ratify the delimitation treaty, which also includes the Chad-Niger and Niger-Nigeria boundaries 
				Chile
			Chile and Peru rebuff Bolivia's reinvigorated claim to restore the Atacama corridor, ceded to Chile in 1884, but Chile has offered instead unrestricted but not sovereign maritime access through Chile to Bolivian gas and other commodities; Chile rejects Peru's unilateral legislation to change its latitudinal maritime boundary with Chile to an equidistance line with a southwestern axis favoring Peru, in October 2007, Peru took its maritime complaint with Chile to the ICJ; territorial claim in Antarctica (Chilean Antarctic Territory) partially overlaps Argentine and British claims; the joint boundary commission, established by Chile and Argentina in 2001, has yet to map and demarcate the delimited boundary in the inhospitable Andean Southern Ice Field (Campo de Hielo Sur) 
				China
			continuing talks and confidence-building measures work toward reducing tensions over Kashmir that nonetheless remains militarized with portions under the de facto administration of China (Aksai Chin), India (Jammu and Kashmir), and Pakistan (Azad Kashmir and Northern Areas); India does not recognize Pakistan's ceding historic Kashmir lands to China in 1964; China and India continue their security and foreign policy dialogue started in 2005 related to the dispute over most of their rugged, militarized boundary, regional nuclear proliferation, and other matters; China claims most of India's Arunachal Pradesh to the base of the Himalayas; lacking any treaty describing the boundary, Bhutan and China continue negotiations to establish a common boundary alignment to resolve territorial disputes due to cartographic discrepancies; Chinese maps show an international boundary symbol off the coasts of the littoral states of the South China Seas, where China has interrupted Vietnamese hydrocarbon exploration; China asserts sovereignty over the Spratly Islands together with Malaysia, Philippines, Taiwan, Vietnam, and possibly Brunei; the 2002 "Declaration on the Conduct of Parties in the South China Sea" eased tensions in the Spratly's but is not the legally binding "code of conduct" sought by some parties; Vietnam and China continue to expand construction of facilities in the Spratly's and in March 2005, the national oil companies of China, the Philippines, and Vietnam signed a joint accord on marine seismic activities in the Spratly Islands; China occupies some of the Paracel Islands also claimed by Vietnam and Taiwan; China and Taiwan continue to reject both Japan's claims to the uninhabited islands of Senkaku-shoto (Diaoyu Tai) and Japan's unilaterally declared equidistance line in the East China Sea, the site of intensive hydrocarbon exploration and exploitation; certain islands in the Yalu and Tumen rivers are in dispute with North Korea; North Korea and China seek to stem illegal migration to China by North Koreans, fleeing privations and oppression, by building a fence along portions of the border and imprisoning North Koreans deported by China; China and Russia have demarcated the once disputed islands at the Amur and Ussuri confluence and in the Argun River in accordance with their 2004 Agreement; China and Tajikistan have begun demarcating the revised boundary agreed to in the delimitation of 2002; the decade-long demarcation of the China-Vietnam land boundary is expected to be completed by the end of 2008, while the maritime boundary delimitation and fisheries agreements in the Gulf of Tonkin, ratified in June 2004, have been implemented; citing environmental, cultural, and social concerns, China has reconsidered construction of 13 dams on the Salween River, but energy-starved Burma, with backing from Thailand, remains intent on building five hydro-electric dams downstream despite regional and international protests; Chinese and Hong Kong authorities met in March 2008 to resolve ownership and use of lands recovered in Shenzhen River channelization, including 96-hectare Lok Ma Chau Loop; Hong Kong developing plans to reduce 2,000 out of 2,800 hectares of its restricted Closed Area by 2010 
				Christmas Island
			none 
				Clipperton Island
			none 
				Cocos (Keeling) Islands
			none 
				Colombia
			in December 2007, ICJ allocates San Andres, Providencia, and Santa Catalina islands to Colombia under 1928 Treaty but does not rule on 82W meridian as maritime boundary with Nicaragua; managed dispute with Venezuela over maritime boundary and Venezuelan-administered Los Monjes Islands near the Gulf of Venezuela; Colombian-organized illegal narcotics, guerrilla, and paramilitary activities penetrate all neighboring borders and have caused Colombian citizens to flee mostly into neighboring countries; Colombia, Honduras, Nicaragua, Jamaica, and the US assert various claims to Bajo Nuevo and Serranilla Bank 
				Comoros
			claims French-administered Mayotte and challenges France's and Madagascar's claims to Banc du Geyser, a drying reef in the Mozambique Channel; in May 2008, African Union forces are called in to assist the Comoros military recapture Anjouan Island from rebels who seized it in 2001 
				Congo, Democratic Republic of the
			heads of the Great Lakes states and UN pledged in 2004 to abate tribal, rebel, and militia fighting in the region, including northeast Congo, where the UN Organization Mission in the Democratic Republic of the Congo (MONUC), organized in 1999, maintains over 16,500 uniformed peacekeepers; members of Uganda's Lords Resistance Army forces continue to seek refuge in Congo's Garamba National Park as peace talks with the Uganda government evolve; the location of the boundary in the broad Congo River with the Republic of the Congo is indefinite except in the Pool Malebo/Stanley Pool area; Uganda and DROC dispute Rukwanzi island in Lake Albert and other areas on the Semliki River with hydrocarbon potential; boundary commission continues discussions over Congolese-administered triangle of land on the right bank of the Lunkinda river claimed by Zambia near the DROC village of Pweto 
				Congo, Republic of the
			the location of the boundary in the broad Congo River with the Democratic Republic of the Congo is indefinite except in the Pool Malebo/Stanley Pool area 
				Cook Islands
			none 
				Coral Sea Islands
			none 
				Costa Rica
			the ICJ has given Costa Rica until January 2008 to reply and Nicaragua until July 2008 to rejoin before rendering its decision on the navigation, security, and commercial rights of Costa Rican vessels on the Ro San Juan over which Nicaragua retains sovereignty 
				Cote d'Ivoire
			despite the presence of over 9,000 UN forces (UNOCI) in Cote d'Ivoire since 2004, ethnic conflict still leaves displaced hundreds of thousands of Ivorians in and out of the country as well as driven out migrants from neighboring states who worked in Ivorian cocoa plantations; the March 2007 peace deal between Ivorian rebels and the government brought significant numbers of rebels out of hiding in neighboring states 
				Croatia
			dispute remains with Bosnia and Herzegovina over several small disputed sections of the boundary related to maritime access that hinders ratification of the 1999 border agreement; the Croatia-Slovenia land and maritime boundary agreement, which would have ceded most of Pirin Bay and maritime access to Slovenia and several villages to Croatia, remains un-ratified and in dispute; Slovenia also protests Croatia's 2003 claim to an exclusive economic zone in the Adriatic; as a European Union peripheral state, Slovenia imposed a hard border Schengen regime with non-member Croatia in December 2007 
				Cuba
			US Naval Base at Guantanamo Bay is leased to US and only mutual agreement or US abandonment of the facility can terminate the lease 
				Cyprus
			hostilities in 1974 divided the island into two de facto autonomous entities, the internationally recognized Cypriot Government and a Turkish-Cypriot community (north Cyprus); the 1,000-strong UN Peacekeeping Force in Cyprus (UNFICYP) has served in Cyprus since 1964 and maintains the buffer zone between north and south; on 1 May 2004, Cyprus entered the European Union still divided, with the EU's body of legislation and standards (acquis communitaire) suspended in the north; Turkey protests Cypriot Government creating hydrocarbon blocks and maritime boundary with Lebanon in March 2007 
				Czech Republic
			while threats of international legal action never materialized in 2007, 915,220 Austrians, with the support of the popular Freedom Party, signed a petition in January 2008, demanding that Austria block the Czech Republic's accession to the EU unless Prague closes its controversial Soviet-style nuclear plant in Temelin, bordering Austria 
				Denmark
			Iceland, the UK, and Ireland dispute Denmark's claim that the Faroe Islands' continental shelf extends beyond 200 nm; Faroese continue to study proposals for full independence; sovereignty dispute with Canada over Hans Island in the Kennedy Channel between Ellesmere Island and Greenland 
				Djibouti
			Djibouti maintains economic ties and border accords with "Somaliland" leadership while maintaining some political ties to various factions in Somalia; Kuwait is chief investor in the 2008 restoration and upgrade of the Ethiopian-Djibouti rail link 
				Dominica
			Dominica is the only Caribbean state to challenge Venezuela's sovereignty claim over Aves Island and joins the other island nations in challenging whether the feature sustains human habitation, a criterion under the UN Convention on the Law of the Sea (UNCLOS), which permits Venezuela to extend its Exclusive Economic Zone (EEZ) and continental shelf claims over a large portion of the eastern Caribbean Sea 
				Dominican Republic
			Haitian migrants cross the porous border into the Dominican Republic to find work; illegal migrants from the Dominican Republic cross the Mona Passage each year to Puerto Rico to find better work 
				Ecuador
			organized illegal narcotics operations in Colombia penetrate across Ecuador's shared border, which thousands of Colombians also cross to escape the violence in their home country 
				Egypt
			while Sudan retains claim to the Hala'ib Triangle north of the 1899 Treaty boundary along the 22nd Parallel, both states withdrew their military presence in the 1990s and Egypt has invested in and effectively administers the area; Egypt no longer shows its administration of the Bir Tawil trapezoid in Sudan on its maps; Gazan breaches in the security wall with Egypt in January 2008 highlight difficulties in monitoring the Sinai border 
				El Salvador
			International Court of Justice (ICJ) ruled on the delimitation of "bolsones" (disputed areas) along the El Salvador-Honduras boundary, in 1992, with final agreement by the parties in 2006 after an Organization of American States (OAS) survey and a further ICJ ruling in 2003; the 1992 ICJ ruling advised a tripartite resolution to a maritime boundary in the Gulf of Fonseca advocating Honduran access to the Pacific; El Salvador continues to claim tiny Conejo Island, not identified in the ICJ decision, off Honduras in the Gulf of Fonseca 
				Equatorial Guinea
			in 2002, ICJ ruled on an equidistance settlement of Cameroon-Equatorial Guinea-Nigeria maritime boundary in the Gulf of Guinea, but a dispute between Equatorial Guinea and Cameroon over an island at the mouth of the Ntem River and imprecisely defined maritime coordinates in the ICJ decision delay final delimitation; UN urges Equatorial Guinea and Gabon to resolve the sovereignty dispute over Gabon-occupied Mbane and lesser islands and to create a maritime boundary in the hydrocarbon-rich Corisco Bay 
				Eritrea
			Eritrea and Ethiopia agreed to abide by 2002 Ethiopia-Eritrea Boundary Commission's (EEBC) delimitation decision but, neither party responded to the revised line detailed in the November 2006 EEBC Demarcation Statement; UN Peacekeeping Mission to Ethiopia and Eritrea (UNMEE), which has monitored the 25-km-wide Temporary Security Zone in Eritrea since 2000, is extended for six months in 2007 despite Eritrean restrictions on its operations and reduced force of 17,000; Sudan accuses Eritrea of supporting eastern Sudanese rebel groups 
				Estonia
			Russia recalled its signature to the 1996 technical border agreement with Estonia in 2005, rather than concede to Estonia's appending prepared a unilateral declaration referencing Soviet occupation and territorial losses; Russia demands better accommodation of Russian-speaking population in Estonia; Estonian citizen groups continue to press for realignment of the boundary based on the 1920 Tartu Peace Treaty that would bring the now divided ethnic Setu people and parts of the Narva region within Estonia; as a member state that forms part of the EU's external border, Estonia must implement the strict Schengen border rules with Russia 
				Ethiopia
			Eritrea and Ethiopia agreed to abide by the 2002 Eritrea-Ethiopia Boundary Commission's (EEBC) delimitation decision, but neither party responded to the revised line detailed in the November 2006 EEBC Demarcation Statement; UN Peacekeeping Mission to Ethiopia and Eritrea (UNMEE), which has monitored the 25-km-wide Temporary Security Zone in Eritrea since 2000, is extended for six months in 2007 despite Eritrean restrictions on its operations and reduced force of 17,000; the undemarcated former British administrative line has little meaning as a political separation to rival clans within Ethiopia's Ogaden and southern Somalia's Oromo region; Ethiopian forces invaded southern Somalia and routed Islamist Courts from Mogadishu in January 2007; "Somaliland" secessionists provide port facilities in Berbera and trade ties to landlocked Ethiopia; civil unrest in eastern Sudan has hampered efforts to demarcate the porous boundary with Ethiopia 
				European Union
			as a political union, the EU has no border disputes with neighboring countries, but Estonia has no land boundary agreements with Russia, Slovenia disputes its land and maritime boundaries with Croatia, and Spain has territorial and maritime disputes with Morocco and with the UK over Gibraltar; the EU has set up a Schengen area - consisting of 22 EU member states that have signed the convention implementing the Schengen agreements or "acquis" (1985 and 1990) on the free movement of persons and the harmonization of border controls in Europe; these agreements became incorporated into EU law with the implementation of the 1997 Treaty of Amsterdam on 1 May 1999; in addition, non-EU states Iceland and Norway (as part of the Nordic Union) have been included in the Schengen area since 1996 (full members in 2001), and Switzerland since 2008 bringing the total current membership to 25; the UK (since 2000) and Ireland (since 2002) take part in only some aspects of the Schengen area, especially with respect to police and criminal matters; nine of the 12 new member states that joined the EU since 2004 joined Schengen on 21 December 2007; of the three remaining EU states, Cyprus is expected to join by 2009, while Romania and Bulgaria continue to enhance their border security systems 
				Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas)
			Argentina, which claims the islands in its constitution and briefly occupied them by force in 1982, agreed in 1995 to no longer seek settlement by force; UK continues to reject Argentine requests for sovereignty talks 
				Faroe Islands
			because anticipated offshore hydrocarbon resources have not been realized, earlier Faroese proposals for full independence have been deferred; Iceland, the UK, and Ireland dispute Denmark's claim that the Faroe Islands' continental shelf extends beyond 200 nm 
				Fiji
			none 
				Finland
			various groups in Finland advocate restoration of Karelia and other areas ceded to the Soviet Union, but the Finnish Government asserts no territorial demands 
				France
			Madagascar claims the French territories of Bassas da India, Europa Island, Glorioso Islands, and Juan de Nova Island; Comoros claims Mayotte; Mauritius claims Tromelin Island; territorial dispute between Suriname and the French overseas department of French Guiana; France asserts a territorial claim in Antarctica (Adelie Land); France and Vanuatu claim Matthew and Hunter Islands, east of New Caledonia 
				French Polynesia
			none 
				French Southern and Antarctic Lands
			French claim to "Adelie Land" in Antarctica is not recognized by the US 
				Bassas da India, Europa Island, Glorioso Islands, Juan de Nova Island (Iles Eparses): claimed by Madagascar 
				Tromelin Island (Iles Eparses): claimed by Mauritius 
				Gabon
			UN urges Equatorial Guinea and Gabon to resolve the sovereignty dispute over Gabon-occupied Mbane Island and lesser islands and to establish a maritime boundary in hydrocarbon-rich Corisco Bay 
				Gambia, The
			attempts to stem refugees, cross-border raids, arms smuggling, and other illegal activities by separatists from southern Senegal's Casamance region, as well as from conflicts in other west African states 
				Gaza Strip
			West Bank and Gaza Strip are Israeli-occupied with current status subject to the Israeli-Palestinian Interim Agreement - permanent status to be determined through further negotiation; Israel removed settlers and military personnel from the Gaza Strip in August 2005 
				Georgia
			Russia and Georgia agree on delimiting 80% of their common border, leaving certain small, strategic segments and the maritime boundary unresolved; OSCE observers monitor volatile areas such as the Pankisi Gorge in the Akhmeti region and the Argun Gorge in Abkhazia; UN Observer Mission in Georgia has maintained a peacekeeping force in Georgia since 1993; Meshkheti Turks scattered throughout the former Soviet Union seek to return to Georgia; boundary with Armenia remains undemarcated; ethnic Armenian groups in Javakheti region of Georgia seek greater autonomy from the Georgian government; Azerbaijan and Georgia continue to discuss the alignment of their boundary at certain crossing areas 
				Germany
			none 
				Ghana
			Ghana struggles to accommodate returning nationals who worked in the cocoa plantations and escaped fighting in Cote d'Ivoire 
				Gibraltar
			in 2002, Gibraltar residents voted overwhelmingly by referendum to reject any "shared sovereignty" arrangement; the government of Gibraltar insists on equal participation in talks between the UK and Spain; Spain disapproves of UK plans to grant Gibraltar even greater autonomy 
				Greece
			Greece and Turkey continue discussions to resolve their complex maritime, air, territorial, and boundary disputes in the Aegean Sea; Cyprus question with Turkey; Greece rejects the use of the name Macedonia or Republic of Macedonia; the mass migration of unemployed Albanians still remains a problem for developed countries, chiefly Greece and Italy 
				Greenland
			managed dispute between Canada and Denmark over Hans Island in the Kennedy Channel between Canada's Ellesmere Island and Greenland 
				Grenada
			none 
				Guam
			none 
				Guatemala
			annual ministerial meetings under the OAS-initiated Agreement on the Framework for Negotiations and Confidence Building Measures continue to address Guatemalan land and maritime claims in Belize and the Caribbean Sea; the Line of Adjacency created under the 2002 Differendum serves in lieu of the contiguous international boundary to control squatting in the sparsely inhabited rain forests of Belize's border region; Mexico must deal with thousands of impoverished Guatemalans and other Central Americans who cross the porous border looking for work in Mexico and the United States 
				Guernsey
			none 
				Guinea
			conflicts among rebel groups, warlords, and youth gangs in neighboring states have spilled over into Guinea, resulting in domestic instability; Sierra Leone considers Guinea's definition of the flood plain limits to define the left bank boundary of the Makona and Moa rivers excessive and protests Guinea's continued occupation of these lands, including the hamlet of Yenga, occupied since 1998 
				Guinea-Bissau
			in 2006, political instability within Senegal's Casamance region resulted in thousands of Senegalese refugees, cross-border raids, and arms smuggling into Guinea-Bissau 
				Guyana
			all of the area west of the Essequibo River is claimed by Venezuela preventing any discussion of a maritime boundary; Guyana has expressed its intention to join Barbados in asserting claims before UNCLOS that Trinidad and Tobago's maritime boundary with Venezuela extends into their waters; Suriname claims a triangle of land between the New and Kutari/Koetari rivers in a historic dispute over the headwaters of the Courantyne; Guyana seeks arbitration under provisions of the UN Convention on the Law of the Sea (UNCLOS) to resolve the long-standing dispute with Suriname over the axis of the territorial sea boundary in potentially oil-rich waters 
				Haiti
			since 2004, about 8,000 peacekeepers from the UN Stabilization Mission in Haiti (MINUSTAH) maintain civil order in Haiti; despite efforts to control illegal migration, Haitians cross into the Dominican Republic and sail to neighboring countries; Haiti claims US-administered Navassa Island 
				Heard Island and McDonald Islands
			none 
				Holy See (Vatican City)
			none 
				Honduras
			International Court of Justice (ICJ) ruled on the delimitation of "bolsones" (disputed areas) along the El Salvador-Honduras border in 1992 with final settlement by the parties in 2006 after an Organization of American States (OAS) survey and a further ICJ ruling in 2003; the 1992 ICJ ruling advised a tripartite resolution to a maritime boundary in the Gulf of Fonseca with consideration of Honduran access to the Pacific; El Salvador continues to claim tiny Conejo Island, not mentioned in the ICJ ruling, off Honduras in the Gulf of Fonseca; Honduras claims the Belizean-administered Sapodilla Cays off the coast of Belize in its constitution, but agreed to a joint ecological park around the cays should Guatemala consent to a maritime corridor in the Caribbean under the OAS-sponsored 2002 Belize-Guatemala Differendum; memorials and countermemorials were filed by the parties in Nicaragua's 1999 and 2001 proceedings against Honduras and Colombia at the ICJ over the maritime boundary and territorial claims in the western Caribbean Sea - final public hearings are scheduled for 2007 
				Hong Kong
			none 
				Hungary
			bilateral government, legal, technical and economic working group negotiations continue in 2006 with Slovakia over Hungary's failure to complete its portion of the Gabcikovo-Nagymaros hydroelectric dam project along the Danube; as a member state that forms part of the EU's external border, Hungary has implemented the strict Schengen border rules 
				Iceland
			Iceland, the UK, and Ireland dispute Denmark's claim that the Faroe Islands' continental shelf extends beyond 200 nm 
				India
			since China and India launched a security and foreign policy dialogue in 2005, consolidated discussions related to the dispute over most of their rugged, militarized boundary, regional nuclear proliferation, Indian claims that China transferred missiles to Pakistan, and other matters continue; various talks and confidence-building measures have cautiously begun to defuse tensions over Kashmir, particularly since the October 2005 earthquake in the region; Kashmir nevertheless remains the site of the world's largest and most militarized territorial dispute with portions under the de facto administration of China (Aksai Chin), India (Jammu and Kashmir), and Pakistan (Azad Kashmir and Northern Areas); India and Pakistan have maintained the 2004 cease fire in Kashmir and initiated discussions on defusing the armed stand-off in the Siachen glacier region; Pakistan protests India's fencing the highly militarized Line of Control and construction of the Baglihar Dam on the Chenab River in Jammu and Kashmir, which is part of the larger dispute on water sharing of the Indus River and its tributaries; UN Military Observer Group in India and Pakistan (UNMOGIP) has maintained a small group of peacekeepers since 1949; India does not recognize Pakistan's ceding historic Kashmir lands to China in 1964; to defuse tensions and prepare for discussions on a maritime boundary, India and Pakistan seek technical resolution of the disputed boundary in Sir Creek estuary at the mouth of the Rann of Kutch in the Arabian Sea; Pakistani maps continue to show its Junagadh claim in Indian Gujarat State; discussions with Bangladesh remain stalled to delimit a small section of river boundary, to exchange territory for 51 Bangladeshi exclaves in India and 111 Indian exclaves in Bangladesh, to allocate divided villages, and to stop illegal cross-border trade, migration, violence, and transit of terrorists through the porous border; Bangladesh protests India's attempts to fence off high-traffic sections of the border; dispute with Bangladesh over New Moore/South Talpatty/Purbasha Island in the Bay of Bengal deters maritime boundary delimitation; India seeks cooperation from Bhutan and Burma to keep Indian Nagaland and Assam separatists from hiding in remote areas along the borders; Joint Border Committee with Nepal continues to examine contested boundary sections, including the 400 square kilometer dispute over the source of the Kalapani River; India maintains a strict border regime to keep out Maoist insurgents and control illegal cross-border activities from Nepal 
				Indian Ocean
			some maritime disputes (see littoral states) 
				Indonesia
			Indonesia has a stated foreign policy objective of establishing stable fixed land and maritime boundaries with all of its neighbors; Timor-Leste-Indonesia Boundary Committee has resolved all but a small portion of the land boundary, but discussions on maritime boundaries are stalemated over sovereignty of the uninhabited coral island of Pulau Batek/Fatu Sinai in the north and alignment with Australian claims in the south; many refugees from Timor-Leste who left in 2003 still reside in Indonesia and refuse repatriation; a 1997 treaty between Indonesia and Australia settled some parts of their maritime boundary but outstanding issues remain; ICJ's award of Sipadan and Ligitan islands to Malaysia in 2002 left the sovereignty of Unarang rock and the maritime boundary in the Ambalat oil block in the Celebes Sea in dispute; the ICJ decision has prompted Indonesia to assert claims to and to establish a presence on its smaller outer islands; Indonesia and Singapore continue to work on finalization of their 1973 maritime boundary agreement by defining unresolved areas north of Indonesia's Batam Island; Indonesian secessionists, squatters, and illegal migrants create repatriation problems for Papua New Guinea; piracy remains a problem in the Malacca Strait; maritime delimitation talks continue with Palau; Indonesian groups challenge Australia's claim to Ashmore Reef; Australia has closed parts of the Ashmore and Cartier Reserve to Indonesian traditional fishing and placed restrictions on certain catches
				Iran
			Iran protests Afghanistan's limiting flow of dammed tributaries to the Helmand River in periods of drought; Iraq's lack of a maritime boundary with Iran prompts jurisdiction disputes beyond the mouth of the Shatt al Arab in the Persian Gulf; Iran and UAE dispute Tunb Islands and Abu Musa Island, which are occupied by Iran; Iran stands alone among littoral states in insisting upon a division of the Caspian Sea into five equal sectors 
				Iraq
			coalition forces assist Iraqis in monitoring internal and cross-border security; approximately two million Iraqis have fled the conflict in Iraq, with the majority taking refuge in Syria and Jordan, and lesser numbers to Egypt, Lebanon, Iran, and Turkey; Iraq's lack of a maritime boundary with Iran prompts jurisdiction disputes beyond the mouth of the Shatt al Arab in the Persian Gulf; Turkey has expressed concern over the autonomous status of Kurds in Iraq 
				Ireland
			Ireland, Iceland, and the UK dispute Denmark's claim that the Faroe Islands' continental shelf extends beyond 200 nm 
				Isle of Man
			none 
				Israel
			West Bank and Gaza Strip are Israeli-occupied with current status subject to the Israeli-Palestinian Interim Agreement - permanent status to be determined through further negotiation; Israel continues construction of a "seam line" separation barrier along parts of the Green Line and within the West Bank; Israel withdrew its settlers and military from the Gaza Strip and from four settlements in the West Bank in August 2005; Golan Heights is Israeli-occupied (Lebanon claims the Shab'a Farms area of Golan Heights); since 1948, about 350 peacekeepers from the UN Truce Supervision Organization (UNTSO) headquartered in Jerusalem monitor ceasefires, supervise armistice agreements, prevent isolated incidents from escalating, and assist other UN personnel in the region 
				Italy
			Italy's long coastline and developed economy entices tens of thousands of illegal immigrants from southeastern Europe and northern Africa 
				Jamaica
			none 
				Jan Mayen
			none 
				Japan
			the sovereignty dispute over the islands of Etorofu, Kunashiri, and Shikotan, and the Habomai group, known in Japan as the "Northern Territories" and in Russia as the "Southern Kuril Islands," occupied by the Soviet Union in 1945, now administered by Russia and claimed by Japan, remains the primary sticking point to signing a peace treaty formally ending World War II hostilities; Japan and South Korea claim Liancourt Rocks (Take-shima/Dokdo) occupied by South Korea since 1954; China and Taiwan dispute both Japan's claims to the uninhabited islands of the Senkaku-shoto (Diaoyu Tai) and Japan's unilaterally declared exclusive economic zone in the East China Sea, the site of intensive hydrocarbon prospecting 
				Jersey
			none 
				Jordan
			approximately two million Iraqis have fled the conflict in Iraq, with the majority taking refuge in Syria and Jordan; 2004 Agreement settles border dispute with Syria pending demarcation 
				Kazakhstan
			Kyrgyzstan has yet to ratify the 2001 boundary delimitation with Kazakhstan; field demarcation of the boundaries with Turkmenistan commenced in 2005, and with Uzbekistan in 2004; demarcation is scheduled to get underway with Russia in 2007; demarcation with China was completed in 2002; creation of a seabed boundary with Turkmenistan in the Caspian Sea remains under discussion; equidistant seabed treaties have been ratified with Azerbaijan and Russia in the Caspian Sea, but no resolution has been made on dividing the water column among any of the littoral states 
				Kenya
			Kenya served as an important mediator in brokering Sudan's north-south separation in February 2005; Kenya provides shelter to almost a quarter of a million refugees, including Ugandans who flee across the border periodically to seek protection from Lord's Resistance Army (LRA) rebels; Kenya works hard to prevent the clan and militia fighting in Somalia from spreading across the border, which has long been open to nomadic pastoralists; the boundary that separates Kenya's and Sudan's sovereignty is unclear in the "Ilemi Triangle," which Kenya has administered since colonial times 
				Kiribati
			none 
				Korea, North
			risking arrest, imprisonment, and deportation, tens of thousands of North Koreans cross into China to escape famine, economic privation, and political oppression; North Korea and China dispute the sovereignty of certain islands in Yalu and Tumen rivers; Military Demarcation Line within the 4-km wide Demilitarized Zone has separated North from South Korea since 1953; periodic incidents in the Yellow Sea with South Korea which claims the Northern Limiting Line as a maritime boundary; North Korea supports South Korea in rejecting Japan's claim to Liancourt Rocks (Tok-do/Take-shima) 
				Korea, South
			Military Demarcation Line within the 4-km wide Demilitarized Zone has separated North from South Korea since 1953; periodic incidents with North Korea in the Yellow Sea over the Northern Limiting Line, which South Korea claims as a maritime boundary; South Korea and Japan claim Liancourt Rocks (Dokdo/Take-shima), occupied by South Korea since 1954 
				Kosovo
			Serbia with several other states protest the US and other states' recognition of Kosovo's declaring itself as a sovereign and independent state in February 2008; ethnic Serbian municipalities along Kosovo's northern border challenge final status of Kosovo-Serbia boundary; several thousand NATO-led KFOR peacekeepers under UNMIK authority continue to keep the peace within Kosovo between the ethnic Albanian majority and the Serb minority in Kosovo; Kosovo and Macedonia completed demarcation of their boundary in September 2008 
				Kuwait
			Kuwait and Saudi Arabia continue negotiating a joint maritime boundary with Iran; no maritime boundary exists with Iraq in the Persian Gulf 
				Kyrgyzstan
			Kyrgyzstan has yet to ratify the 2001 boundary delimitation with Kazakhstan; disputes in Isfara Valley delay completion of delimitation with Tajikistan; delimitation of 130 km of border with Uzbekistan is hampered by serious disputes around enclaves and other areas 
				Laos
			Southeast Asian states have enhanced border surveillance to check the spread of avian flu; talks continue on completion of demarcation with Thailand but disputes remain over islands in the Mekong River; concern among Mekong Commission members that China's construction of dams on the Mekong River will affect water levels 
				Latvia
			Russia demands better Latvian treatment of ethnic Russians in Latvia; as of January 2007, ground demarcation of the boundary with Belarus was complete and mapped with final ratification documentation in preparation; the Latvian parliament has not ratified its 1998 maritime boundary treaty with Lithuania, primarily due to concerns over oil exploration rights; as a member state that forms part of the EU's external border, Latvia has implemented the strict Schengen border rules with Russia 
				Lebanon
			lacking a treaty or other documentation describing the boundary, portions of the Lebanon-Syria boundary are unclear with several sections in dispute; since 2000, Lebanon has claimed Shab'a Farms area in the Israeli-occupied Golan Heights; the roughly 2,000-strong UN Interim Force in Lebanon (UNIFIL) has been in place since 1978 
				Lesotho
			none 
				Liberia
			although civil unrest continues to abate with the assistance of 18,000 UN Mission in Liberia (UNMIL) peacekeepers, as of January 2007, Liberian refugees still remain in Guinea, Cote d'Ivoire, Sierra Leone, and Ghana; Liberia, in turn, shelters refugees fleeing turmoil in Cote d'Ivoire; despite the presence of over 9,000 UN forces (UNOCI) in Cote d'Ivoire since 2004, ethnic conflict continues to spread into neighboring states who can no longer send their migrant workers to Ivorian cocoa plantations; UN sanctions ban Liberia from exporting diamonds and timber 
				Libya
			Libya has claimed more than 32,000 sq km in southeastern Algeria and about 25,000 sq km in the Tommo region of Niger in a currently dormant dispute; various Chadian rebels from the Aozou region reside in southern Libya 
				Liechtenstein
			none 
				Lithuania
			Lithuania and Russia committed to demarcating their boundary in 2006 in accordance with the land and maritime treaty ratified by Russia in May 2003 and by Lithuania in 1999; Lithuania operates a simplified transit regime for Russian nationals traveling from the Kaliningrad coastal exclave into Russia, while still conforming, as a EU member state having an external border with a non-EU member, to strict Schengen border rules; the Latvian parliament has not ratified its 1998 maritime boundary treaty with Lithuania, primarily due to concerns over potential hydrocarbons; as of January 2007, ground demarcation of the boundary with Belarus was complete and mapped with final ratification documents in preparation 
				Luxembourg
			none 
				Macau
			none 
				Macedonia
			Kosovo and Macedonia completed demarcation of their boundary in September 2008; Greece continues to reject the use of the name Macedonia or Republic of Macedonia 
				Madagascar
			claims Bassas da India, Europa Island, Glorioso Islands, and Juan de Nova Island (all administered by France) 
				Malawi
			disputes with Tanzania over the boundary in Lake Nyasa (Lake Malawi) and the meandering Songwe River remain dormant 
				Malaysia
			Malaysia has asserted sovereignty over the Spratly Islands together with China, Philippines, Taiwan, Vietnam, and possibly Brunei; while the 2002 "Declaration on the Conduct of Parties in the South China Sea" has eased tensions over the Spratly Islands, it is not the legally binding "code of conduct" sought by some parties; Malaysia was not party to the March 2005 joint accord among the national oil companies of China, the Philippines, and Vietnam on conducting marine seismic activities in the Spratly Islands; disputes continue over deliveries of fresh water to Singapore, Singapore's land reclamation, bridge construction, and maritime boundaries in the Johor and Singapore Straits; in November 2007, the ICJ will hold public hearings in response to the Memorials and Countermemorials filed by the parties in 2003 and 2005 over sovereignty of Pedra Branca Island/Pulau Batu Puteh, Middle Rocks and South Ledge; ICJ awarded Ligitan and Sipadan islands, also claimed by Indonesia and Philippines, to Malaysia but left maritime boundary and sovereignty of Unarang rock in the hydrocarbon-rich Celebes Sea in dispute; separatist violence in Thailand's predominantly Muslim southern provinces prompts measures to close and monitor border with Malaysia to stem terrorist activities; Philippines retains a dormant claim to Malaysia's Sabah State in northern Borneo; Brunei and Malaysia agreed in September 2008 to resolve their offshore and deepwater seabed dispute, resume hydrocarbon exploration and renounce any territorial claims on land; piracy remains a problem in the Malacca Strait 
				Maldives
			none 
				Mali
			none 
				Malta
			none 
				Marshall Islands
			claims US territory of Wake Island 
				Mauritania
			Mauritanian claims to Western Sahara remain dormant 
				Mauritius
			Mauritius claims the Chagos Archipelago (UK-administered British Indian Ocean Territory), and its former inhabitants, who reside chiefly in Mauritius; claims French-administered Tromelin Island 
				Mayotte
			claimed by Comoros 
				Mexico
			abundant rainfall in recent years along much of the Mexico-US border region has ameliorated periodically strained water-sharing arrangements; the US has intensified security measures to monitor and control legal and illegal personnel, transport, and commodities across its border with Mexico; Mexico must deal with thousands of impoverished Guatemalans and other Central Americans who cross the porous border looking for work in Mexico and the United States 
				Micronesia, Federated States of
			none 
				Moldova
			Moldova and Ukraine operate joint customs posts to monitor the transit of people and commodities through Moldova's break-away Transnistria region, which remains under OSCE supervision 
				Monaco
			none 
				Mongolia
			none 
				Montenegro
			none 
				Montserrat
			none 
				Morocco
			claims and administers Western Sahara whose sovereignty remains unresolved - UN-administered cease-fire has remained in effect since September 1991, but attempts to hold a referendum have failed and parties thus far have rejected all brokered proposals; Morocco protests Spain's control over the coastal enclaves of Ceuta, Melilla, and Penon de Velez de la Gomera, the islands of Penon de Alhucemas and Islas Chafarinas, and surrounding waters; discussions have not progressed on a comprehensive maritime delimitation, setting limits on resource exploration and refugee interdiction, since Morocco's 2002 rejection of Spain's unilateral designation of a median line from the Canary Islands; Morocco serves as one of the primary launching areas of illegal migration into Spain from North Africa 
				Mozambique
			none 
				Namibia
			concerns from international experts and local populations over the Okavango Delta ecology in Botswana and human displacement scuttled Namibian plans to construct a hydroelectric dam on Popa Falls along the Angola-Namibia border; managed dispute with South Africa over the location of the boundary in the Orange River; Namibia has supported, and in 2004 Zimbabwe dropped objections to, plans between Botswana and Zambia to build a bridge over the Zambezi River, thereby de facto recognizing a short, but not clearly delimited, Botswana-Zambia boundary in the river 
				Nauru
			none 
				Navassa Island
			claimed by Haiti, source of subsistence fishing 
				Nepal
			joint border commission continues to work on contested sections of boundary with India, including the 400 square kilometer dispute over the source of the Kalapani River; India has instituted a stricter border regime to restrict transit of Maoist insurgents and illegal cross-border activities; approximately 106,000 Bhutanese Lhotshampas (Hindus) have been confined in refugee camps in southeastern Nepal since 1990 
				Netherlands
			none 
				Netherlands Antilles
			none 
				New Caledonia
			Matthew and Hunter Islands east of New Caledonia claimed by France and Vanuatu 
				New Zealand
			asserts a territorial claim in Antarctica (Ross Dependency) 
				Nicaragua
			memorials and countermemorials were filed by the parties in Nicaragua's 1999 and 2001 proceedings against Honduras and Colombia at the ICJ over the maritime boundary and territorial claims in the western Caribbean Sea, final public hearings are scheduled for 2007; the 1992 ICJ ruling for El Salvador and Honduras advised a tripartite resolution to establish a maritime boundary in the Gulf of Fonseca, which considers Honduran access to the Pacific; legal dispute over navigational rights of San Juan River on border with Costa Rica 
				Niger
			Libya claims about 25,000 sq km in a currently dormant dispute in the Tommo region; much of Benin-Niger boundary, including tripoint with Nigeria, remains undemarcated; only Nigeria and Cameroon have heeded the Lake Chad Commission's admonition to ratify the delimitation treaty which also includes the Chad-Niger and Niger-Nigeria boundaries 
				Nigeria
			Joint Border Commission with Cameroon reviewed 2002 ICJ ruling on the entire boundary and bilaterally resolved differences, including June 2006 Greentree Agreement that immediately cedes sovereignty of the Bakassi Peninsula to Cameroon with a phase-out of Nigerian control within two years while resolving patriation issues; the ICJ ruled on an equidistance settlement of Cameroon-Equatorial Guinea-Nigeria maritime boundary in the Gulf of Guinea, but imprecisely defined coordinates in the ICJ decision and a sovereignty dispute between Equatorial Guinea and Cameroon over an island at the mouth of the Ntem River all contribute to the delay in implementation; only Nigeria and Cameroon have heeded the Lake Chad Commission's admonition to ratify the delimitation treaty which also includes the Chad-Niger and Niger-Nigeria boundaries 
				Niue
			none 
				Norfolk Island
			none 
				Northern Mariana Islands
			none 
				Norway
			Norway asserts a territorial claim in Antarctica (Queen Maud Land and its continental shelf); despite dialogue, Russia and Norway continue to dispute their maritime limits in the Barents Sea and Russia's fishing rights beyond Svalbard's territorial limits within the Svalbard Treaty zone 
				Oman
			boundary agreement reportedly signed and ratified with UAE in 2003 for entire border, including Oman's Musandam Peninsula and Al Madhah exclave, but details of the alignment have not been made public 
				Pacific Ocean
			some maritime disputes (see littoral states) 
				Pakistan
			various talks and confidence-building measures cautiously have begun to defuse tensions over Kashmir, particularly since the October 2005 earthquake in the region; Kashmir nevertheless remains the site of the world's largest and most militarized territorial dispute with portions under the de facto administration of China (Aksai Chin), India (Jammu and Kashmir), and Pakistan (Azad Kashmir and Northern Areas); UN Military Observer Group in India and Pakistan (UNMOGIP) has maintained a small group of peacekeepers since 1949; India does not recognize Pakistan's ceding historic Kashmir lands to China in 1964; India and Pakistan have maintained their 2004 cease fire in Kashmir and initiated discussions on defusing the armed stand-off in the Siachen glacier region; Pakistan protests India's fencing the highly militarized Line of Control and construction of the Baglihar Dam on the Chenab River in Jammu and Kashmir, which is part of the larger dispute on water sharing of the Indus River and its tributaries; to defuse tensions and prepare for discussions on a maritime boundary, India and Pakistan seek technical resolution of the disputed boundary in Sir Creek estuary at the mouth of the Rann of Kutch in the Arabian Sea; Pakistani maps continue to show the Junagadh claim in India's Gujarat State; by 2005, Pakistan, with UN assistance, repatriated 2.3 million Afghan refugees leaving slightly more than a million, many of whom remain at their own choosing; Pakistan has proposed and Afghanistan protests construction of a fence and laying of mines along portions of their porous border; Pakistan has sent troops into remote tribal areas to monitor and control the border with Afghanistan and to stem terrorist or other illegal activities 
				Palau
			maritime delineation negotiations continue with Philippines, Indonesia 
				Panama
			organized illegal narcotics operations in Colombia operate within the remote border region with Panama 
				Papua New Guinea
			relies on assistance from Australia to keep out illegal cross-border activities from primarily Indonesia, including goods smuggling, illegal narcotics trafficking, and squatters and secessionists 
				Paracel Islands
			occupied by China, also claimed by Taiwan and Vietnam 
				Paraguay
			unruly region at convergence of Argentina-Brazil-Paraguay borders is locus of money laundering, smuggling, arms and illegal narcotics trafficking, and fundraising for extremist organizations 
				Peru
			Chile and Ecuador rejected Peru's November 2005 unilateral legislation to shift the axis of their joint treaty-defined maritime boundaries along the parallels of latitude to equidistance lines which favor Peru; organized illegal narcotics operations in Colombia have penetrated Peru's shared border; Peru rejects Bolivia's claim to restore maritime access through a sovereign corridor through Chile along the Peruvian border 
				Philippines
			Philippines claims sovereignty over certain of the Spratly Islands, known locally as the Kalayaan (Freedom) Islands, also claimed by China, Malaysia, Taiwan, and Vietnam; the 2002 "Declaration on the Conduct of Parties in the South China Sea," has eased tensions in the Spratly Islands but falls short of a legally binding "code of conduct" desired by several of the disputants; in March 2005, the national oil companies of China, the Philippines, and Vietnam signed a joint accord to conduct marine seismic activities in the Spratly Islands; Philippines retains a dormant claim to Malaysia's Sabah State in northern Borneo based on the Sultanate of Sulu's granting the Philippines Government power of attorney to pursue a sovereignty claim on his behalf; maritime delimitation negotiations continue with Palau 
				Pitcairn Islands
			none 
				Poland
			as a member state that forms part of the EU's external border, Poland has implemented the strict Schengen border rules to restrict illegal immigration and trade along its eastern borders with Belarus and Ukraine 
				Portugal
			Portugal does not recognize Spanish sovereignty over the territory of Olivenza based on a difference of interpretation of the 1815 Congress of Vienna and the 1801 Treaty of Badajoz 
				Puerto Rico
			increasing numbers of illegal migrants from the Dominican Republic cross the Mona Passage to Puerto Rico each year looking for work 
				Qatar
			none 
				Romania
			the ICJ gave Ukraine until December 2006 to reply, and Romania until June 2007 to issue a rejoinder, in their dispute submitted in 2004 over Ukrainian-administered Zmiyinyy/Serpilor (Snake) Island and Black Sea maritime boundary delimitation; Romania also opposes Ukraine's reopening of a navigation canal from the Danube border through Ukraine to the Black Sea 
				Russia
			China and Russia have demarcated the once disputed islands at the Amur and Ussuri confluence and in the Argun River in accordance with the 2004 Agreement, ending their centuries-long border disputes; the sovereignty dispute over the islands of Etorofu, Kunashiri, Shikotan, and the Habomai group, known in Japan as the "Northern Territories" and in Russia as the "Southern Kurils," occupied by the Soviet Union in 1945, now administered by Russia, and claimed by Japan, remains the primary sticking point to signing a peace treaty formally ending World War II hostilities; Russia and Georgia agree on delimiting all but small, strategic segments of the land boundary and the maritime boundary; OSCE observers monitor volatile areas such as the Pankisi Gorge in the Akhmeti region and the Kodori Gorge in Abkhazia; Azerbaijan, Kazakhstan, and Russia signed equidistance boundaries in the Caspian seabed but the littoral states have no consensus on dividing the water column; Russia and Norway dispute their maritime limits in the Barents Sea and Russia's fishing rights beyond Svalbard's territorial limits within the Svalbard Treaty zone; various groups in Finland advocate restoration of Karelia (Kareliya) and other areas ceded to the Soviet Union following the Second World War but the Finnish Government asserts no territorial demands; in May 2005, Russia recalled its signatures to the 1996 border agreements with Estonia (1996) and Latvia (1997), when the two Baltic states announced issuance of unilateral declarations referencing Soviet occupation and ensuing territorial losses; Russia demands better treatment of ethnic Russians in Estonia and Latvia; Estonian citizen groups continue to press for realignment of the boundary based on the 1920 Tartu Peace Treaty that would bring the now divided ethnic Setu people and parts of the Narva region within Estonia; Lithuania and Russia committed to demarcating their boundary in 2006 in accordance with the land and maritime treaty ratified by Russia in May 2003 and by Lithuania in 1999; Lithuania operates a simplified transit regime for Russian nationals traveling from the Kaliningrad coastal exclave into Russia, while still conforming, as an EU member state with an EU external border, where strict Schengen border rules apply; preparations for the demarcation delimitation of land boundary with Ukraine have commenced; the dispute over the boundary between Russia and Ukraine through the Kerch Strait and Sea of Azov remains unresolved despite a December 2003 framework agreement and on-going expert-level discussions; Kazakhstan and Russia boundary delimitation was ratified on November 2005 and field demarcation should commence in 2007; Russian Duma has not yet ratified 1990 Bering Sea Maritime Boundary Agreement with the US 
				Rwanda
			fighting among ethnic groups - loosely associated political rebels, armed gangs, and various government forces in Great Lakes region transcending the boundaries of Burundi, Democratic Republic of the Congo, Rwanda, and Uganda - abated substantially from a decade ago due largely to UN peacekeeping, international mediation, and efforts by local governments to create civil societies; nonetheless, 57,000 Rwandan refugees still reside in 21 African states, including Zambia, Gabon, and 20,000 who fled to Burundi in 2005 and 2006 to escape drought and recriminations from traditional courts investigating the 1994 massacres; the 2005 DROC and Rwanda border verification mechanism to stem rebel actions on both sides of the border remains in place
				Saint Helena
			none 
				Saint Kitts and Nevis
			joins other Caribbean states to counter Venezuela's claim that Aves Island sustains human habitation, a criterion under UNCLOS, which permits Venezuela to extend its EEZ/continental shelf over a large portion of the eastern Caribbean Sea 
				Saint Lucia
			joins other Caribbean states to counter Venezuela's claim that Aves Island sustains human habitation, a criterion under UNCLOS, which permits Venezuela to extend its EEZ/continental shelf over a large portion of the eastern Caribbean Sea 
				Saint Pierre and Miquelon
			none 
				Saint Vincent and the Grenadines
			joins other Caribbean states to counter Venezuela's claim that Aves Island sustains human habitation, a criterion under UNCLOS, which permits Venezuela to extend its EEZ/continental shelf over a large portion of the eastern Caribbean Sea 
				Samoa
			none 
				San Marino
			none 
				Sao Tome and Principe
			none 
				Saudi Arabia
			Saudi Arabia has reinforced its concrete-filled security barrier along sections of the now fully demarcated border with Yemen to stem illegal cross-border activities; Kuwait and Saudi Arabia continue discussions on a maritime boundary with Iran 
				Senegal
			The Gambia and Guinea-Bissau attempt to stem separatist violence, cross border raids, and arms smuggling into their countries from Senegal's Casamance region, and in 2006, respectively accepted 6,000 and 10,000 Casamance residents fleeing the conflict; 2,500 Guinea-Bissau residents fled into Senegal in 2006 to escape armed confrontations along the border 
				Serbia
			Serbia with several other states protest the U.S. and other states' recognition of Kosovo's declaring itself as a sovereign and independent state in February 2008; ethnic Serbian municipalities along Kosovo's northern border challenge final status of Kosovo-Serbia boundary; several thousand NATO-led KFOR peacekeepers under UNMIK authority continue to keep the peace within Kosovo between the ethnic Albanian majority and the Serb minority in Kosovo; Serbia delimited about half of the boundary with Bosnia and Herzegovina, but sections along the Drina River remain in dispute 
				Seychelles
			together with Mauritius, Seychelles claims the Chagos Archipelago (UK-administered British Indian Ocean Territory) 
				Sierra Leone
			as domestic fighting among disparate ethnic groups, rebel groups, warlords, and youth gangs in Cote d'Ivoire, Guinea, Liberia, and Sierra Leone gradually abate, the number of refugees in border areas has begun to slowly dwindle; UN Mission in Sierra Leone (UNAMSIL) has maintained over 4,000 peacekeepers in Sierra Leone since 1999; Sierra Leone considers excessive Guinea's definition of the flood plain limits to define the left bank boundary of the Makona and Moa rivers and protests Guinea's continued occupation of these lands including the hamlet of Yenga occupied since 1998 
				Singapore
			disputes persist with Malaysia over deliveries of fresh water to Singapore, Singapore's extensive land reclamation works, bridge construction, and maritime boundaries in the Johor and Singapore Straits; in November 2007, the ICJ will hold public hearings as a consequence of the Memorials and Countermemorials filed by the parties in 2003 and 2005 over sovereignty of Pedra Branca Island/Pulau Batu Puteh, Middle Rocks and South Ledge; Indonesia and Singapore continue to work on finalization of their 1973 maritime boundary agreement by defining unresolved areas north of Indonesia's Batam Island; piracy remains a problem in the Malacca Strait
				Slovakia
			bilateral government, legal, technical and economic working group negotiations continued in 2006 between Slovakia and Hungary over Hungary's completion of its portion of the Gabcikovo-Nagymaros hydroelectric dam project along the Danube; as a member state that forms part of the EU's external border, Slovakia has implemented the strict Schengen border rules 
				Slovenia
			the Croatia-Slovenia land and maritime boundary agreement, which would have ceded most of Piran Bay and maritime access to Slovenia and several villages to Croatia, remains unratified and in dispute; Slovenia also protests Croatia's 2003 claim to an exclusive economic zone in the Adriatic; as a member state that forms part of the EU's external border, Slovenia has implemented the strict Schengen border rules to curb illegal migration and commerce through southeastern Europe while encouraging close cross-border ties with Croatia 
				Solomon Islands
			since 2003, the Regional Assistance Mission to the Solomon Islands (RAMSI), consisting of police, military, and civilian advisors drawn from 15 countries, has assisted in reestablishing and maintaining civil and political order while reinforcing regional stability and security 
				Somalia
			Ethiopian forces invaded southern Somalia and routed Islamist Courts from Mogadishu in January 2007; "Somaliland" secessionists provide port facilities in Berbera to landlocked Ethiopia and have established commercial ties with other regional states; "Puntland" and "Somaliland" "governments" seek international support in their secessionist aspirations and overlapping border claims; the undemarcated former British administrative line has little meaning as a political separation to rival clans within Ethiopia's Ogaden and southern Somalia's Oromo region; Kenya works hard to prevent the clan and militia fighting in Somalia from spreading south across the border, which has long been open to nomadic pastoralists 
				South Africa
			South Africa has placed military along the border to apprehend the thousands of Zimbabweans fleeing economic dysfunction and political persecution; as of January 2007, South Africa also supports large numbers of refugees and asylum seekers from the Democratic Republic of the Congo (33,000), Somalia (20,000), Burundi (6,500), and other states in Africa (26,000); managed dispute with Namibia over the location of the boundary in the Orange River; in 2006, Swazi king advocates resort to ICJ to claim parts of Mpumalanga and KwaZulu-Natal from South Africa 
				South Georgia and the South Sandwich Islands
			Argentina, which claims the islands in its constitution and briefly occupied them by force in 1982, agreed in 1995 to no longer seek settlement by force 
				Southern Ocean
			Antarctic Treaty defers claims (see Antarctica entry), but Argentina, Australia, Chile, France, NZ, Norway, and UK assert claims (some overlapping), including the continental shelf in the Southern Ocean; several states have expressed an interest in extending those continental shelf claims under the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea (UNCLOS) to include undersea ridges; the US and most other states do not recognize the land or maritime claims of other states and have made no claims themselves (the US and Russia have reserved the right to do so); no formal claims exist in the waters in the sector between 90 degrees west and 150 degrees west 
				Spain
			in 2002, Gibraltar residents voted overwhelmingly by referendum to remain a British colony and against a "total shared sovereignty" arrangement while demanding participation in talks between the UK and Spain; Spain disapproves of UK plans to grant Gibraltar greater autonomy; Morocco protests Spain's control over the coastal enclaves of Ceuta, Melilla, and the islands of Penon de Velez de la Gomera, Penon de Alhucemas, and Islas Chafarinas, and surrounding waters; Morocco serves as the primary launching site of illegal migration into Spain from North Africa; Portugal does not recognize Spanish sovereignty over the territory of Olivenza based on a difference of interpretation of the 1815 Congress of Vienna and the 1801 Treaty of Badajoz 
				Spratly Islands
			all of the Spratly Islands are claimed by China, Taiwan, and Vietnam; parts of them are claimed by Malaysia and the Philippines; in 1984, Brunei established an exclusive fishing zone that encompasses Louisa Reef in the southern Spratly Islands but has not publicly claimed the reef; claimants in November 2002 signed the "Declaration on the Conduct of Parties in the South China Sea," which has eased tensions but falls short of a legally binding "code of conduct"; in March 2005, the national oil companies of China, the Philippines, and Vietnam signed a joint accord to conduct marine seismic activities in the Spratly Islands 
				Sri Lanka
			none 
				Sudan
			the effects of Sudan's almost constant ethnic and rebel militia fighting since the mid-20th century have penetrated all of the neighboring states; as of 2006, Chad, Ethiopia, Kenya, Central African Republic, Democratic Republic of the Congo, and Uganda provided shelter for over half a million Sudanese refugees, which includes 240,000 Darfur residents driven from their homes by Janjawid armed militia and the Sudanese military forces; Sudan, in turn, hosted about 116,000 Eritreans, 20,000 Chadians, and smaller numbers of Ethiopians, Ugandans, Central Africans, and Congolese as refugees; in February 2006, Sudan and DROC signed an agreement to repatriate 13,300 Sudanese and 6,800 Congolese; Sudan accuses Eritrea of supporting Sudanese rebel groups; efforts to demarcate the porous boundary with Ethiopia proceed slowly due to civil and ethnic fighting in eastern Sudan; the boundary that separates Kenya and Sudan's sovereignty is unclear in the "Ilemi Triangle," which Kenya has administered since colonial times; while Sudan claims to administer the Hala'ib Triangle north of the 1899 Treaty boundary along the 22nd Parallel; both states withdrew their military presence in the 1990s, and Egypt has invested in and effectively administers the area; periodic violent skirmishes with Sudanese residents over water and grazing rights persist among related pastoral populations along the border with the Central African Republic 
				Suriname
			area claimed by French Guiana between Riviere Litani and Riviere Marouini (both headwaters of the Lawa); Suriname claims a triangle of land between the New and Kutari/Koetari rivers in a historic dispute over the headwaters of the Courantyne; Guyana seeks United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea (UNCLOS) arbitration to resolve the long-standing dispute with Suriname over the axis of the territorial sea boundary in potentially oil-rich waters 
				Svalbard
			despite recent discussions, Russia and Norway dispute their maritime limits in the Barents Sea and Russia's fishing rights beyond Svalbard's territorial limits within the Svalbard Treaty zone 
				Swaziland
			in 2006, Swazi king advocates resort to ICJ to claim parts of Mpumalanga and KwaZulu-Natal from South Africa 
				Sweden
			none 
				Switzerland
			none 
				Syria
			Golan Heights is Israeli-occupied with the almost 1,000-strong UN Disengagement Observer Force (UNDOF) patrolling a buffer zone since 1964; lacking a treaty or other documentation describing the boundary, portions of the Lebanon-Syria boundary are unclear with several sections in dispute; since 2000, Lebanon has claimed Shaba'a farms in the Golan Heights; 2004 Agreement and pending demarcation settles border dispute with Jordan; approximately two million Iraqis have fled the conflict in Iraq with the majority taking refuge in Syria and Jordan 
				Taiwan
			involved in complex dispute with China, Malaysia, Philippines, Vietnam, and possibly Brunei over the Spratly Islands; the 2002 "Declaration on the Conduct of Parties in the South China Sea" has eased tensions but falls short of a legally binding "code of conduct" desired by several of the disputants; Paracel Islands are occupied by China, but claimed by Taiwan and Vietnam; in 2003, China and Taiwan became more vocal in rejecting both Japan's claims to the uninhabited islands of the Senkaku-shoto (Diaoyu Tai) and Japan's unilaterally declared exclusive economic zone in the East China Sea where all parties engage in hydrocarbon prospecting 
				Tajikistan
			in 2006, China and Tajikistan pledged to commence demarcation of the revised boundary agreed to in the delimitation of 2002; talks continue with Uzbekistan to delimit border and remove minefields; disputes in Isfara Valley delay delimitation with Kyrgyzstan 
				Tanzania
			Tanzania still hosts more than a half-million refugees, more than any other African country, mainly from Burundi and the Democratic Republic of the Congo, despite the international community's efforts at repatriation; disputes with Malawi over the boundary in Lake Nyasa (Lake Malawi) and the meandering Songwe River remain dormant 
				Thailand
			separatist violence in Thailand's predominantly Muslim southern provinces prompt border closures and controls with Malaysia to stem terrorist activities; Southeast Asian states have enhanced border surveillance to check the spread of avian flu; talks continue on completion of demarcation with Laos but disputes remain over several islands in the Mekong River; despite continuing border committee talks, Thailand must deal with Karen and other ethnic rebels, refugees, and illegal cross-border activities, and as of 2006, over 116,000 Karen, Hmong, and other refugees and asylum seekers from Burma; Cambodia and Thailand dispute sections of historic boundary with missing boundary markers; Cambodia claims Thai encroachments into Cambodian territory and obstructing access to Preah Vihear temple ruins awarded to Cambodia by ICJ decision in 1962; Thailand is studying the feasibility of jointly constructing the Hatgyi Dam on the Salween river near the border with Burma; in 2004, international environmentalist pressure prompted China to halt construction of 13 dams on the Salween River that flows through China, Burma, and Thailand 
				Timor-Leste
			Timor-Leste-Indonesia Boundary Committee has resolved all but a small portion of the land boundary, but discussions on maritime boundaries are stalemated over sovereignty of the uninhabited coral island of Pulau Batek/Fatu Sinai in the north and alignment with Australian claims in the south; many refugees who left Timor-Leste in 2003 still reside in Indonesia and refuse repatriation; Australia and Timor-Leste agreed in 2005 to defer the disputed portion of the boundary for 50 years and to split hydrocarbon revenues evenly outside the Joint Petroleum Development Area covered by the 2002 Timor Sea Treaty 
				Togo
			in 2001, Benin claimed Togo moved boundary monuments - joint commission continues to resurvey the boundary; in 2006 14,000 Togolese refugees remain in Benin and Ghana out of the 40,000 who fled there in 2005 
				Tokelau
			Tokelau included American Samoa's Swains Island (Olohega) in its 2006 draft constitution 
				Tonga
			none 
				Trinidad and Tobago
			in April 2006, the Permanent Court of Arbitration issued a decision that delimited a maritime boundary with Trinidad and Tobago and compelled Barbados to enter a fishing agreement that limited Barbadian fishermen's catches of flying fish in Trinidad and Tobago's exclusive economic zone; in 2005, Barbados and Trinidad and Tobago agreed to compulsory international arbitration under UNCLOS challenging whether the northern limit of Trinidad and Tobago's and Venezuela's maritime boundary extends into Barbadian waters; Guyana has also expressed its intention to include itself in the arbitration as the Trinidad and Tobago-Venezuela maritime boundary may extend into its waters as well 
				Tunisia
			none 
				Turkey
			complex maritime, air, and territorial disputes with Greece in the Aegean Sea; status of north Cyprus question remains; Syria and Iraq protest Turkish hydrological projects to control upper Euphrates waters; Turkey has expressed concern over the status of Kurds in Iraq; border with Armenia remains closed over Nagorno-Karabakh 
				Turkmenistan
			cotton monoculture in Uzbekistan and Turkmenistan creates water-sharing difficulties for Amu Darya river states; field demarcation of the boundaries with Kazakhstan commenced in 2005, but Caspian seabed delimitation remains stalled with Azerbaijan, Iran, and Kazakhstan due to Turkmenistan's indecision over how to allocate the sea's waters and seabed 
				Turks and Caicos Islands
			have received Haitians fleeing economic and civil disorder 
				Tuvalu
			none 
				Uganda
			Uganda is subject to armed fighting among hostile ethnic groups, rebels, armed gangs, militias, and various government forces that extend across its borders; Uganda hosts 209,860 Sudanese, 27,560 Congolese, and 19,710 Rwandan refugees, while Ugandan refugees as well as members of the Lord's Resistance Army (LRA) seek shelter in southern Sudan and the Democratic Republic of the Congo's Garamba National Park; LRA forces have also attacked Kenyan villages across the border 
				Ukraine
			1997 boundary delimitation treaty with Belarus remains un-ratified due to unresolved financial claims, stalling demarcation and reducing border security; delimitation of land boundary with Russia is complete with preparations for demarcation underway; the dispute over the boundary between Russia and Ukraine through the Kerch Strait and Sea of Azov remains unresolved despite a December 2003 framework agreement and ongoing expert-level discussions; Moldova and Ukraine operate joint customs posts to monitor transit of people and commodities through Moldova's break-away Transnistria Region, which remains under OSCE supervision; the ICJ gave Ukraine until December 2006 to reply, and Romania until June 2007 to rejoin, in their dispute submitted in 2004 over Ukrainian-administered Zmiyinyy/Serpilor (Snake) Island and Black Sea maritime boundary; Romania opposes Ukraine's reopening of a navigation canal from the Danube border through Ukraine to the Black Sea 
				United Arab Emirates
			boundary agreement was signed and ratified with Oman in 2003 for entire border, including Oman's Musandam Peninsula and Al Madhah enclaves, but contents of the agreement and detailed maps showing the alignment have not been published; Iran and UAE dispute Tunb Islands and Abu Musa Island, which Iran occupies 
				United Kingdom
			in 2002, Gibraltar residents voted overwhelmingly by referendum to reject any "shared sovereignty" arrangement between the UK and Spain; the Government of Gibraltar insists on equal participation in talks between the two countries; Spain disapproves of UK plans to grant Gibraltar greater autonomy; Mauritius and Seychelles claim the Chagos Archipelago (British Indian Ocean Territory), and its former inhabitants since their eviction in 1965; most Chagossians reside in Mauritius, and in 2001 were granted UK citizenship, where some have since resettled; in May 2006, the High Court of London reversed the UK Government's 2004 orders of council that banned habitation on the islands; UK rejects sovereignty talks requested by Argentina, which still claims the Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas) and South Georgia and the South Sandwich Islands; territorial claim in Antarctica (British Antarctic Territory) overlaps Argentine claim and partially overlaps Chilean claim; Iceland, the UK, and Ireland dispute Denmark's claim that the Faroe Islands' continental shelf extends beyond 200 nm 
				United States
			the U.S. has intensified domestic security measures and is collaborating closely with its neighbors, Canada and Mexico, to monitor and control legal and illegal personnel, transport, and commodities across the international borders; abundant rainfall in recent years along much of the Mexico-US border region has ameliorated periodically strained water-sharing arrangements; 1990 Maritime Boundary Agreement in the Bering Sea still awaits Russian Duma ratification; managed maritime boundary disputes with Canada at Dixon Entrance, Beaufort Sea, Strait of Juan de Fuca, and around the disputed Machias Seal Island and North Rock; The Bahamas and US have not been able to agree on a maritime boundary; US Naval Base at Guantanamo Bay is leased from Cuba and only mutual agreement or US abandonment of the area can terminate the lease; Haiti claims US-administered Navassa Island; US has made no territorial claim in Antarctica (but has reserved the right to do so) and does not recognize the claims of any other states; Marshall Islands claims Wake Island; Tokelau included American Samoa's Swains Island among the islands listed in its 2006 draft constitution 
				United States Pacific Island Wildlife Refuges
			none 
				Uruguay
			in Jan 2007, ICJ provisionally ruled Uruguay may begin construction of two paper mills on the Uruguay River, which forms the border with Argentina, while the court examines further whether Argentina has the legal right to stop such construction with potential environmental implications to both countries; uncontested dispute with Brazil over certain islands in the Quarai/Cuareim and Invernada streams and the resulting tripoint with Argentina 
				Uzbekistan
			prolonged drought and cotton monoculture in Uzbekistan and Turkmenistan creates water-sharing difficulties for Amu Darya river states; field demarcation of the boundaries with Kazakhstan commenced in 2004; border delimitation of 130 km of border with Kyrgyzstan is hampered by serious disputes around enclaves and other areas 
				Vanuatu
			Matthew and Hunter Islands east of New Caledonia claimed by Vanuatu and France 
				Venezuela
			claims all of the area west of the Essequibo River in Guyana, preventing any discussion of a maritime boundary; Guyana has expressed its intention to join Barbados in asserting claims before the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea (UNCLOS) that Trinidad and Tobago's maritime boundary with Venezuela extends into their waters; dispute with Colombia over maritime boundary and Venezuelan-administered Los Monjes islands near the Gulf of Venezuela; Colombian-organized illegal narcotics and paramilitary activities penetrate Venezuela's shared border region; in 2006, an estimated 139,000 Colombians sought protection in 150 communities along the border in Venezuela; US, France, and the Netherlands recognize Venezuela's granting full effect to Aves Island, thereby claiming a Venezuelan EEZ/continental shelf extending over a large portion of the eastern Caribbean Sea; Dominica, Saint Kitts and Nevis, Saint Lucia, and Saint Vincent and the Grenadines protest Venezuela's full effect claim 
				Vietnam
			southeast Asian states have enhanced border surveillance to check the spread of avian flu; Cambodia and Laos protest Vietnamese squatters and armed encroachments along border; an estimated 300,000 Vietnamese refugees reside in China; establishment of a maritime boundary with Cambodia is hampered by unresolved dispute over the sovereignty of offshore islands; demarcation of the China-Vietnam boundary proceeds slowly and although the maritime boundary delimitation and fisheries agreements were ratified in June 2004, implementation has been delayed; China occupies the Paracel Islands also claimed by Vietnam and Taiwan; involved in complex dispute with China, Malaysia, Philippines, Taiwan, and possibly Brunei over the Spratly Islands; the 2002 "Declaration on the Conduct of Parties in the South China Sea" has eased tensions but falls short of a legally binding "code of conduct" desired by several of the disputants; Vietnam continues to expand construction of facilities in the Spratly Islands; in March 2005, the national oil companies of China, the Philippines, and Vietnam signed a joint accord to conduct marine seismic activities in the Spratly Islands 
				Virgin Islands
			none 
				Wake Island
			claimed by Marshall Islands 
				Wallis and Futuna
			none 
				West Bank
			West Bank and Gaza Strip are Israeli-occupied with current status subject to the Israeli-Palestinian Interim Agreement - permanent status to be determined through further negotiation; Israel continues construction of a "seam line" separation barrier along parts of the Green Line and within the West Bank; Israel withdrew from four settlements in the northern West Bank in August 2005; since 1948, about 350 peacekeepers from the UN Truce Supervision Organization (UNTSO), headquartered in Jerusalem, monitor ceasefires, supervise armistice agreements, prevent isolated incidents from escalating, and assist other UN personnel in the region 
				Western Sahara
			Morocco claims and administers Western Sahara, whose sovereignty remains unresolved; UN-administered cease-fire has remained in effect since September 1991, administered by the UN Mission for the Referendum in Western Sahara (MINURSO), but attempts to hold a referendum have failed and parties thus far have rejected all brokered proposals; several states have extended diplomatic relations to the "Sahrawi Arab Democratic Republic" represented by the Polisario Front in exile in Algeria, while others recognize Moroccan sovereignty over Western Sahara; most of the approximately 102,000 Sahrawi refugees are sheltered in camps in Tindouf, Algeria 
				World
			stretching over 250,000 km, the world's 322 international land boundaries separate 194 independent states and 71 dependencies, areas of special sovereignty, and other miscellaneous entities; ethnicity, culture, race, religion, and language have divided states into separate political entities as much as history, physical terrain, political fiat, or conquest, resulting in sometimes arbitrary and imposed boundaries; most maritime states have claimed limits that include territorial seas and exclusive economic zones; overlapping limits due to adjacent or opposite coasts create the potential for 430 bilateral maritime boundaries of which 209 have agreements that include contiguous and non-contiguous segments; boundary, borderland/resource, and territorial disputes vary in intensity from managed or dormant to violent or militarized; undemarcated, indefinite, porous, and unmanaged boundaries tend to encourage illegal cross-border activities, uncontrolled migration, and confrontation; territorial disputes may evolve from historical and/or cultural claims, or they may be brought on by resource competition; ethnic and cultural clashes continue to be responsible for much of the territorial fragmentation and internal displacement of the estimated 6.6 million people and cross-border displacements of 8.6 million refugees around the world as of early 2006; just over one million refugees were repatriated in the same period; other sources of contention include access to water and mineral (especially hydrocarbon) resources, fisheries, and arable land; armed conflict prevails not so much between the uniformed armed forces of independent states as between stateless armed entities that detract from the sustenance and welfare of local populations, leaving the community of nations to cope with resultant refugees, hunger, disease, impoverishment, and environmental degradation 
				Yemen
			Saudi Arabia has reinforced its concrete-filled security barrier along sections of the fully demarcated border with Yemen to stem illegal cross-border activities 
				Zambia
			in 2004, Zimbabwe dropped objections to plans between Botswana and Zambia to build a bridge over the Zambezi River, thereby de facto recognizing a short, but not clearly delimited, Botswana-Zambia boundary in the river; 42,250 Congolese refugees in Zambia are offered voluntary repatriation in November 2006, most of whom are expected to return in the next two years; Angolan refugees too have been repatriating but 26,450 still remain with 90,000 others from other neighboring states in 2006 
				Zimbabwe
			Botswana built electric fences and South Africa has placed military along the border to stem the flow of thousands of Zimbabweans fleeing to find work and escape political persecution; Namibia has supported, and in 2004 Zimbabwe dropped objections to, plans between Botswana and Zambia to build a bridge over the Zambezi River, thereby de facto recognizing a short, but not clearly delimited, Botswana-Zambia boundary in the river  		
				This page was last updated on 19 March 2009
&nbsp; 
CIA - The World Factbook -- Field Listing - Telephones - main lines in use
&nbsp; 
				    &nbsp; 
                    Field Listing - Telephones - main lines in use
         Home 
          &nbsp;Reference Maps 
          &nbsp;Appendixes 
          		&nbsp;Rank Order List
			Country
			Telephones - main lines in use 	
				Afghanistan
				Albania
				Algeria
			3.068 million (2007) 
				American Samoa
				Andorra
				Angola
				Anguilla
				Antarctica
			0; note - information for US bases only (2001) 
				Antigua and Barbuda
				Argentina
			9.5 million (2007) 
				Armenia
				Aruba
				Australia
			9.76 million (2007) 
				Austria
			3.374 million (2007) 
				Azerbaijan
			1.254 million (2007) 
				Bahamas, The
				Bahrain
				Bangladesh
			1.187 million (2007) 
				Barbados
				Belarus
			3.672 million (2007) 
				Belgium
			4.668 million (2007) 
				Belize
				Benin
				Bermuda
				Bhutan
				Bolivia
				Bosnia and Herzegovina
			1.065 million (2007) 
				Botswana
				Brazil
			39.4 million (2007) 
				British Indian Ocean Territory
			NA 
				British Virgin Islands
				Brunei
				Bulgaria
			2.3 million (2007) 
				Burkina Faso
				Burma
				Burundi
				Cambodia
				Cameroon
				Canada
			21 million (2006) 
				Cape Verde
				Cayman Islands
				Central African Republic
				Chad
				Chile
			3.379 million (2007) 
				China
			365.4 million (2007) 
				Christmas Island
			NA 
				Cocos (Keeling) Islands
				Colombia
			7.936 million (2007) 
				Comoros
				Congo, Democratic Republic of the
				Congo, Republic of the
				Cook Islands
				Costa Rica
			1.437 million (2007) 
				Cote d'Ivoire
				Croatia
			1.825 million (2007) 
				Cuba
			1.043 million (2007) 
				Cyprus
			area under government control: 376,000 (2007); area administered by Turkish Cypriots: 86,228 (2002) 
				Czech Republic
			2.888 million (2006) 
				Denmark
			2.824 million (2007) 
				Djibouti
				Dominica
				Dominican Republic
				Ecuador
			1.805 million (2007) 
				Egypt
			11.229 million (2007) 
				El Salvador
			1.08 million (2007) 
				Equatorial Guinea
				Eritrea
				Estonia
				Ethiopia
				European Union
			238 million (2005) 
				Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas)
				Faroe Islands
				Fiji
				Finland
			1.74 million (2007) 
				France
			35.533 million; 34.8 million (metropolitan France) (2007) 
				French Polynesia
				Gabon
				Gambia, The
				Gaza Strip
			350,400 (includes West Bank) (2007) 
				Georgia
				Germany
			53.75 million (2007) 
				Ghana
				Gibraltar
				Greece
			6.227 million (2007) 
				Greenland
				Grenada
				Guam
				Guatemala
			1.355 million (2006) 
				Guernsey
				Guinea
				Guinea-Bissau
				Guyana
				Haiti
				Holy See (Vatican City)
				Honduras
				Hong Kong
			3.875 million (2007) 
				Hungary
			3.251 million (2007) 
				Iceland
				India
			38.76 million (2008) 
				Indonesia
			17.828 million (2007) 
				Iran
			23.835 million (2007) 
				Iraq
			1.547 million (2005) 
				Ireland
			2.112 million (2007) 
				Isle of Man
				Israel
			3.005 million (2006) 
				Italy
			26.89 million (2006) 
				Jamaica
				Japan
			51.232 million (2007) 
				Jersey
				Jordan
				Kazakhstan
			3.237 million (2007) 
				Kenya
				Kiribati
				Korea, North
			1.18 million (2007) 
				Korea, South
			23.905 million (2007) 
				Kosovo
				Kuwait
				Kyrgyzstan
				Laos
				Latvia
				Lebanon
				Lesotho
				Liberia
				Libya
				Liechtenstein
				Lithuania
				Luxembourg
				Macau
				Macedonia
				Madagascar
				Malawi
				Malaysia
			4.35 million (2007) 
				Maldives
				Mali
				Malta
				Marshall Islands
				Mauritania
				Mauritius
				Mayotte
				Mexico
			19.754 million (2007) 
				Micronesia, Federated States of
				Moldova
			1.08 million (2007) 
				Monaco
				Mongolia
				Montenegro
				Montserrat
			NA 
				Morocco
			2.394 million (2007) 
				Mozambique
				Namibia
				Nauru
				Nepal
				Netherlands
			7.334 million (2007) 
				Netherlands Antilles
				New Caledonia
				New Zealand
			1.706 million (2007) 
				Nicaragua
				Niger
				Nigeria
			1.58 million (2007) 
				Niue
			1,100 (2002 est.) 
				Norfolk Island
			2,532; note - a mix of analog (2500) and digital (32) circuits (2004) 
				Northern Mariana Islands
				Norway
			1.988 million (2007) 
				Oman
				Pakistan
			4.546 million (2008) 
				Palau
				Panama
				Papua New Guinea
				Paraguay
				Peru
			2.673 million (2007) 
				Philippines
			3.633 million (2006) 
				Pitcairn Islands
			1 (there are 17 telephones on one party line); (2004) 
				Poland
			10.336 million (2007) 
				Portugal
			4.139 million (2007) 
				Puerto Rico
			1.038 million (2005) 
				Qatar
				Romania
			4.3 million (2007) 
				Russia
			43.9 million (2006) 
				Rwanda
				Saint Helena
				Saint Kitts and Nevis
				Saint Lucia
				Saint Pierre and Miquelon
				Saint Vincent and the Grenadines
				Samoa
				San Marino
				Sao Tome and Principe
				Saudi Arabia
			3.996 million (2007) 
				Senegal
				Serbia
			2.993 million (2007) 
				Seychelles
				Sierra Leone
				Singapore
			1.859 million (2007) 
				Slovakia
			1.151 million (2007) 
				Slovenia
				Solomon Islands
				Somalia
				South Africa
			4.642 million (2007) 
				Spain
			18.583 million (2007) 
				Sri Lanka
			2.742 million (2007) 
				Sudan
				Suriname
				Svalbard
			NA 
				Swaziland
				Sweden
			5.506 million (2007) 
				Switzerland
			5 million (2007) 
				Syria
			3.452 million (2007) 
				Taiwan
			14.313 million (2007) 
				Tajikistan
				Tanzania
				Thailand
			7.024 million (2007) 
				Timor-Leste
				Togo
				Tokelau
				Tonga
				Trinidad and Tobago
				Tunisia
			1.273 million (2007) 
				Turkey
			18.413 million (2007) 
				Turkmenistan
				Turks and Caicos Islands
				Tuvalu
				Uganda
				Ukraine
			12.858 million (2007) 
				United Arab Emirates
			1.385 million (2007) 
				United Kingdom
			33.682 million (2007) 
				United States
			163.2 million (2007) 
				Uruguay
				Uzbekistan
			1.821 million (2007) 
				Vanuatu
				Venezuela
			5.082 million (2007) 
				Vietnam
			10.8 million (2007) 
				Virgin Islands
				Wallis and Futuna
				West Bank
			350,400 (includes Gaza Strip) (2007) 
				Western Sahara
			about 2,000 (1999 est.) 
				World
				Yemen
				Zambia
				Zimbabwe
				This page was last updated on 19 March 2009
&nbsp; 
CIA - The World Factbook -- Field Listing - Imports - partners
&nbsp; 
				    &nbsp; 
                    Field Listing - Imports - partners
         Home 
          &nbsp;Reference Maps 
          &nbsp;Appendixes 
			Country
			Imports - partners (%) 
				Afghanistan
			Pakistan 36.8%, US 11%, India 5%, Germany 4.2% (2007) 
				Albania
			Italy 27.6%, Greece 14.8%, Turkey 7.4%, China 6.8%, Germany 5.6%, Switzerland 5%, Russia 4.2% (2007) 
				Algeria
			France 18.7%, China 9%, Italy 8.5%, Spain 6%, US 5.5%, Germany 5.3%, Russia 4.6%, Turkey 4.1% (2007) 
				Angola
			Portugal 19.7%, US 10.9%, China 10.5%, Brazil 10.3%, South Africa 6.6%, France 6.3%, UK 4.6%, Germany 4.3% (2007) 
				Argentina
			Brazil 34.6%, US 12.6%, China 12%, Germany 5% (2007) 
				Armenia
			Russia 15.1%, Ukraine 7.7%, Kazakhstan 7.4%, Germany 6.8%, China 6%, France 4.6%, US 4.5%, Iraq 4.3% (2007) 
				Aruba
			US 54.6%, Netherlands 12%, UK 4.7% (2007) 
				Australia
			China 15.5%, US 12.8%, Japan 9.6%, Singapore 5.6%, Germany 5.2%, UK 4.3%, Thailand 4.2% (2007) 
				Austria
			Germany 45.5%, Italy 7.1%, Switzerland 5%, Netherlands 4.3% (2007) 
				Azerbaijan
			Russia 17.6%, Turkey 10.9%, Germany 8.2%, Ukraine 8.2%, UK 7.2%, Japan 5.2%, China 4.9%, US 4.7% (2007) 
				Bahamas, The
			US 26.7%, South Korea 14.1%, Japan 13.5%, Italy 7.5%, Singapore 5.2%, Venezuela 4.5%, Spain 4.3% (2007) 
				Bahrain
			Saudi Arabia 37.7%, Japan 7.2%, US 6.2%, Germany 4.7%, UK 4.5%, UAE 4.2%, China 4.1% (2007) 
				Bangladesh
			China 15%, India 14.3%, Kuwait 8.3%, Singapore 6.2%, Hong Kong 4.2% (2007) 
				Barbados
			US 30.5%, Trinidad and Tobago 27.6%, UK 6.5% (2007) 
				Belarus
			Russia 59.9%, Germany 7.6%, Ukraine 5.4% (2007) 
				Belgium
			Germany 17.7%, Netherlands 17.6%, France 11.2%, UK 6.2%, US 5.4%, Ireland 4.9%, China 4.1% (2007) 
				Belize
			US 31.2%, Mexico 13.6%, Cuba 8.5%, Guatemala 8%, Russia 4.6% (2007) 
				Benin
			China 44.5%, France 8.2%, US 6.5%, Thailand 6.3%, Malaysia 4.8% (2007) 
				Bermuda
			South Korea 36.4%, US 15.7%, Germany 13.2%, Italy 11.8% (2007) 
				Bhutan
			India 74.5%, Japan 7.4%, Sweden 3.2% (2007) 
				Bolivia
			Brazil 29.9%, Argentina 16.2%, Chile 10.5%, US 9.8%, Peru 8.1% (2007) 
				Bosnia and Herzegovina
			Croatia 24.7%, Slovenia 13.3%, Germany 13.1%, Italy 10.4%, Austria 7%, Turkey 6.5%, Hungary 5.4% (2007) 
				Brazil
			US 15.7%, China 10.5%, Argentina 8.6%, Germany 7.2%, Nigeria 4.4% (2007) 
				Brunei
			UK 46.4%, Singapore 19.5%, Malaysia 11.3% (2007) 
				Bulgaria
			Russia 12.3%, Germany 12.3%, Italy 8.7%, Ukraine 7.2%, Turkey 6.9%, Greece 6.2%, Romania 4.5%, Austria 4.3% (2007) 
				Burkina Faso
			Cote d'Ivoire 25.8%, France 20.6%, Togo 7.1% (2007) 
				Burma
			China 33.7%, Thailand 19.1%, Singapore 15.5%, South Korea 5.8%, Indonesia 5.2%, Malaysia 4.2% (2007) 
				Burundi
			Saudi Arabia 17%, Kenya 11.4%, Belgium 8.7%, France 6.1%, Uganda 5.4%, Germany 5.4%, India 4.8%, Pakistan 4.2% (2007) 
				Cambodia
			Thailand 23.1%, Vietnam 16.9%, China 15%, Hong Kong 10.4%, Singapore 7.5%, Taiwan 7.2%, South Korea 4.8% (2007) 
				Cameroon
			France 23.4%, Nigeria 12.8%, China 9%, Belgium 5.8%, US 4% (2007) 
				Canada
			US 54.1%, China 9.4%, Mexico 4.2% (2007) 
				Cape Verde
			Portugal 40.7%, Netherlands 10.9%, France 6.5%, Spain 5.6%, Cote d'Ivoire 4.9%, Brazil 4.7%, Italy 4.7% (2007) 
				Central African Republic
			France 16.6%, Netherlands 13%, Cameroon 9.7%, US 6.3% (2007) 
				Chad
			France 20.4%, Cameroon 16.1%, US 10.9%, China 10%, Germany 7.5%, Saudi Arabia 4.4% (2007) 
				Chile
			US 16.7%, China 11.2%, Brazil 10.3%, Argentina 9.9% (2007) 
				China
			Japan 14%, South Korea 10.9%, Taiwan 10.5%, US 7.3%, Germany 4.7% (2007) 
				Colombia
			US 26.2%, China 10.1%, Mexico 9.3%, Brazil 7.3%, Venezuela 4.2% (2007) 
				Comoros
			France 18.2%, UAE 10.8%, South Africa 8.5%, Pakistan 7.2%, Kenya 5.7%, China 5.4%, India 5% (2007) 
				Congo, Democratic Republic of the
			South Africa 22.5%, Belgium 10.3%, Zambia 8.9%, Zimbabwe 7.5%, France 6.8%, Kenya 6.3%, US 4.1%, Cote d'Ivoire 4.1% (2007) 
				Congo, Republic of the
			France 18.1%, South Korea 14.7%, China 12.6%, Italy 10.3%, India 4.7%, US 4.2% (2007) 
				Costa Rica
			US 41%, Mexico 6.1%, Venezuela 5.7%, Japan 5.4%, China 5.1%, Brazil 4.3% (2007) 
				Cote d'Ivoire
			Nigeria 31.1%, France 16.7%, China 7.3% (2007) 
				Croatia
			Italy 16.1%, Germany 14.4%, Russia 10.1%, China 6.2%, Slovenia 6%, Austria 5.3% (2007) 
				Cuba
			Venezuela 29.6%, China 13.4%, Spain 10.4%, Canada 6%, US 5.1% (2007) 
				Cyprus
			Greece 17.7%, Italy 10.2%, UK 9.6%, Germany 9.4%, Israel 6.5%, France 5.4%, China 5.3%, Netherlands 4.1% (2007) 
				Czech Republic
			Germany 31.8%, Netherlands 6.7%, Slovakia 6.4%, Poland 6.3%, Austria 5.1%, China 5.1%, Russia 4.5%, Italy 4.4%, France 4.1% (2007) 
				Denmark
			Germany 21.6%, Sweden 14.4%, Netherlands 7.1%, Norway 6%, China 5.4%, UK 5.3%, Italy 4.1%, France 4% (2007) 
				Djibouti
			Saudi Arabia 21%, India 18.1%, China 9.4%, Ethiopia 4.7%, Malaysia 4.6%, Japan 4.2% (2007) 
				Dominica
			US 24.1%, China 21.2%, Trinidad and Tobago 13.2%, Japan 11.1% (2007) 
				Dominican Republic
			US 46%, Venezuela 8.1%, Mexico 5.9%, Colombia 4.7% (2007) 
				Ecuador
			US 23.7%, Colombia 10.3%, China 7.6%, Brazil 5.3%, Japan 4.3% (2007) 
				Egypt
			US 11.7%, China 9.7%, Italy 6.4%, Germany 6.3%, Saudi Arabia 4.7%, Russia 4.3% (2007) 
				El Salvador
			US 35.7%, Mexico 9.8%, Guatemala 8.5%, China 4.7% (2007) 
				Equatorial Guinea
			US 19.6%, Spain 13.7%, Cote d'Ivoire 11.9%, France 9.6%, China 7.7%, Italy 6.6%, UK 6.4%, Netherlands 4.1% (2007) 
				Eritrea
			Saudi Arabia 19.1%, Italy 15.1%, China 11.1%, Turkey 8.3%, Germany 7.2%, Ukraine 5.1% (2007) 
				Estonia
			Finland 15.9%, Germany 12.8%, Sweden 10.1%, Russia 10%, Latvia 7.6%, Lithuania 6.9%, Poland 4.5% (2007) 
				Ethiopia
			Saudi Arabia 17%, China 15.9%, India 7.8%, Italy 5.1% (2007) 
				Faroe Islands
			Denmark 51.9%, Norway 21.6%, Sweden 5%, UK 4.6% (2007) 
				Fiji
			Singapore 30.4%, Australia 21.6%, NZ 17.7%, China 4.5% (2007) 
				Finland
			Germany 15.8%, Russia 14%, Sweden 13.7%, Netherlands 6.8%, China 5.5%, UK 4.9% (2007) 
				France
			Germany 18.9%, Belgium 11.4%, Italy 8.4%, Spain 7.1%, Netherlands 7%, UK 5.6%, US 4.4%, China 4% (2007) 
				Gabon
			France 27.7%, US 19.1%, Belgium 5.4%, Netherlands 4.7%, China 4.1% (2007) 
				Gambia, The
			China 23.7%, Senegal 11.5%, Cote d'Ivoire 8.3%, Brazil 8%, Netherlands 5.2% (2007) 
				Georgia
			Turkey 14%, Russia 12.3%, Ukraine 8.5%, Azerbaijan 7.3%, Germany 6.8%, US 5%, Bulgaria 4.6% (2007) 
				Germany
			Netherlands 12%, France 8.6%, Belgium 7.8%, China 6.2%, Italy 5.8%, UK 5.6%, US 4.5%, Austria 4.4% (2007) 
				Ghana
			Nigeria 15.1%, China 14.9%, UK 5.2%, US 5.1% (2007) 
				Greece
			Germany 12.9%, Italy 11.7%, Russia 5.6%, France 5.6%, China 5%, Netherlands 5% (2007) 
				Greenland
			Denmark 68.1%, Sweden 19.3%, Canada 2.5% (2007) 
				Grenada
			Trinidad and Tobago 36.5%, US 23.3%, Italy 4.1% (2007) 
				Guatemala
			US 34.9%, Mexico 9.9%, China 6.8%, El Salvador 4.6%, Costa Rica 4.1% (2007) 
				Guinea
			China 10%, France 7%, Netherlands 6.3% (2007) 
				Guinea-Bissau
			Portugal 21.7%, Senegal 16.8%, France 6%, Pakistan 4.7% (2007) 
				Guyana
			Trinidad and Tobago 26.2%, US 20.5%, Cuba 7.2%, China 7.1%, UK 5.4% (2007) 
				Haiti
			US 41.2%, Netherlands Antilles 14.9%, China 4.7%, Brazil 4.4% (2007) 
				Honduras
			US 52.4%, Guatemala 7.1%, El Salvador 5.2%, Mexico 4.5%, Costa Rica 4.2% (2007) 
				Hong Kong
			China 46.3%, Japan 10%, Taiwan 7.1%, Singapore 6.8%, US 4.9%, South Korea 4.2% (2007) 
				Hungary
			Germany 26.6%, China 7.8%, Russia 6.9%, Austria 6.1%, Italy 4.5%, France 4.3%, Netherlands 4.3% (2007) 
				Iceland
			US 13.7%, Germany 12.2%, Sweden 10.2%, Denmark 7.5%, Netherlands 5.7%, UK 5.4%, China 5.1%, Norway 4.6% (2007) 
				India
			China 10.6%, US 7.8%, Germany 4.4%, Singapore 4.4% (2007) 
				Indonesia
			Singapore 13.2%, China 11.5%, Japan 8.8%, Malaysia 8.6%, US 6.4%, Thailand 5.8%, Saudi Arabia 4.5%, South Korea 4.3%, Australia 4% (2007) 
				Iran
			China 14.2%, Germany 9.6%, UAE 9.1%, South Korea 6.3%, Russia 5.7%, Italy 5% (2007) 
				Iraq
			Syria 30.5%, Turkey 19.8%, US 11.1%, Jordan 5%, China 4.8% (2007) 
				Ireland
			UK 38.3%, US 11.3%, Germany 9.7%, Netherlands 5%, France 4.2% (2007) 
				Israel
			US 13.9%, Belgium 7.9%, Germany 6.2%, China 6.1%, Switzerland 5.1%, UK 4.7%, Italy 4.1% (2007) 
				Italy
			Germany 16.9%, France 9%, China 5.9%, Netherlands 5.5%, Belgium 4.3%, Spain 4.2% (2007) 
				Jamaica
			US 37.2%, Trinidad and Tobago 14.5%, Grenada 9.7%, Venezuela 8.3%, Brazil 4.2% (2007) 
				Japan
			China 20.5%, US 11.6%, Saudi Arabia 5.7%, UAE 5.2%, Australia 5%, South Korea 4.4%, Indonesia 4.2% (2007) 
				Jordan
			Saudi Arabia 21%, China 9.7%, Germany 7.5%, US 4.7%, Egypt 4.4% (2007) 
				Kazakhstan
			Russia 35.4%, China 22.1%, Germany 8% (2007) 
				Kenya
			UAE 11.4%, China 9.9%, India 8.7%, Saudi Arabia 8%, South Africa 6.9%, US 6.2%, Japan 5.9%, UK 4.6% (2007) 
				Korea, North
			China 27%, South Korea 16%, Thailand 9%, Russia 7% (2006) 
				Korea, South
			China 17.7%, Japan 15.8%, US 10.5%, Saudi Arabia 5.9% (2007) 
				Kuwait
			US 12.7%, Japan 8.5%, Germany 7.3%, China 6.8%, South Korea 6.6%, Saudi Arabia 6.2%, Italy 5.8%, UK 4.6% (2007) 
				Kyrgyzstan
			Russia 40.5%, China 14.7%, Kazakhstan 12.9%, Uzbekistan 5% (2007) 
				Laos
			Thailand 68.5%, China 9.3%, Vietnam 5.5% (2007) 
				Latvia
			Germany 15.1%, Lithuania 13.8%, Russia 8.7%, Estonia 8%, Poland 6.9%, Finland 5.1%, Sweden 4.9% (2007) 
				Lebanon
			Syria 12.1%, Italy 8.5%, France 8.3%, US 7%, China 5.9%, Germany 5.3%, Saudi Arabia 4.8% (2007) 
				Lesotho
			China 30%, Hong Kong 29.6%, India 10%, South Korea 6.6%, Germany 6.4%, Pakistan 4.6% (2007) 
				Liberia
			South Korea 31.4%, Singapore 22.1%, Japan 14.9%, China 10.1% (2007) 
				Libya
			Italy 18.9%, Germany 7.7%, China 7.3%, Tunisia 6.8%, France 5.7%, Turkey 5.4%, US 4.3% (2007) 
				Lithuania
			Russia 18%, Germany 15%, Poland 10.6%, Latvia 5.5%, Netherlands 4.3% (2007) 
				Luxembourg
			Belgium 27.4%, Germany 23.8%, China 17.1%, France 9.2%, Netherlands 5% (2007) 
				Macau
			China 42.6%, Hong Kong 10.1%, Japan 9%, US 5.6%, Germany 4.4%, France 4.2% (2007) 
				Macedonia
			Germany 13.2%, Greece 12.9%, Bulgaria 9.6%, Serbia and Montenegro 7.7%, Turkey 6.6%, Italy 6.3%, Slovenia 5% (2007) 
				Madagascar
			France 13.6%, China 13%, Iran 8.1%, South Africa 6.4%, Hong Kong 4.9%, Mauritius 4.8% (2007) 
				Malawi
			South Africa 36.1%, India 8.5%, Tanzania 6.1%, US 6.1%, China 4.9% (2007) 
				Malaysia
			Japan 13%, China 12.9%, Singapore 11.5%, US 10.8%, Taiwan 5.7%, Thailand 5.3%, South Korea 4.9%, Germany 4.6%, Indonesia 4.2% (2007) 
				Maldives
			Canada 35.2%, Singapore 15%, UAE 10.2%, India 7.4%, Malaysia 7.1% (2007) 
				Mali
			France 12.9%, Senegal 12.7%, Cote d'Ivoire 10.9%, China 4.9% (2007) 
				Malta
			Italy 26%, UK 15%, France 9.5%, Germany 8.8%, Singapore 5.2% (2007) 
				Mauritania
			France 16.5%, China 8.1%, Spain 6.7%, US 6.1%, Belgium 5.8%, Brazil 5.7% (2007) 
				Mauritius
			India 21.2%, China 11.4%, France 10.7%, South Africa 7.4% (2007) 
				Mexico
			US 49.6%, China 10.5%, Japan 5.8%, South Korea 4.5% (2007) 
				Moldova
			Russia 20.5%, Ukraine 15.8%, Romania 15%, Germany 8.7%, Italy 5.7%, Poland 4.1% (2007) 
				Mongolia
			China 32%, Russia 29.4%, South Korea 7.9%, Japan 7.2% (2007) 
				Morocco
			France 16.1%, Spain 13.6%, China 7.3%, Italy 6.7%, Saudi Arabia 6.4%, Germany 5.9%, US 4.5%, Netherlands 4.1% (2007) 
				Mozambique
			South Africa 36.7%, Australia 8.5%, China 4.6% (2007) 
				Nepal
			India 58.9%, China 13.6%, Japan 1.6% (2007) 
				Netherlands
			Germany 17.7%, China 10.5%, Belgium 9.3%, US 7.3%, UK 5.8%, Russia 5.1%, France 4.4% (2007) 
				Netherlands Antilles
			Venezuela 59.1%, US 17.7%, Brazil 7.1% (2007) 
				New Caledonia
			France 36.7%, Singapore 14.7%, Australia 12.1%, NZ 5.2%, Germany 4.6% (2007) 
				New Zealand
			Australia 20.7%, China 13.4%, US 9.7%, Japan 9.5%, Singapore 4.9%, Germany 4.7% (2007) 
				Nicaragua
			US 22.5%, Mexico 13.5%, Costa Rica 8.4%, Venezuela 6.4%, Guatemala 6.2%, El Salvador 4.8% (2007) 
				Niger
			France 15.9%, French Polynesia 8.8%, Nigeria 8.6%, Belgium 8.6%, US 6.9%, Cote d'Ivoire 5.6% (2007) 
				Nigeria
			China 10.6%, Netherlands 7.9%, US 7.8%, South Korea 6.6%, UK 5.7%, France 4.3%, Brazil 4.2%, Germany 4.1% (2007) 
				Norway
			Sweden 14.7%, Germany 13.6%, UK 6.9%, Denmark 6.4%, China 6.1%, US 4.8%, Canada 4.3% (2007) 
				Oman
			UAE 19.3%, Japan 17.6%, US 7.4%, Germany 5.2%, India 4.1% (2007) 
				Pakistan
			China 16.2%, Saudi Arabia 10.9%, UAE 10.1%, US 5.7%, Kuwait 4.9%, Japan 4.4% (2007) 
				Panama
			US 32.8%, Netherlands Antilles 7.6%, China 5.6%, Japan 5.1%, Costa Rica 5.1%, South Korea 4.1% (2007) 
				Papua New Guinea
			Australia 51.3%, Singapore 11.6%, China 7.9%, Japan 5.7% (2007) 
				Paraguay
			Brazil 30.4%, US 22.8%, Argentina 14.4%, China 8.6% (2007) 
				Peru
			US 20.5%, China 10.8%, Brazil 9%, Ecuador 6.1%, Argentina 5.6%, Chile 5%, Colombia 4.8% (2007) 
				Philippines
			US 14.1%, Japan 12.3%, Singapore 11.2%, Taiwan 7.3%, China 7.2%, Saudi Arabia 6.4%, South Korea 5.9%, Malaysia 4.1%, Thailand 4.1% (2007) 
				Poland
			Germany 29%, Russia 8.7%, Italy 6.6%, Netherlands 5.7%, France 5.1%, China 4.2% (2007) 
				Portugal
			Spain 29.5%, Germany 12.9%, France 8.4%, Italy 5.2%, Netherlands 4.6% (2007) 
				Qatar
			US 13.3%, Italy 10.8%, Japan 8.9%, France 7.9%, Germany 7.3%, UK 5.7%, South Korea 5.6%, UAE 5.1%, Saudi Arabia 4.3% (2007) 
				Romania
			Germany 17.2%, Italy 12.8%, Hungary 6.9%, Russia 6.3%, France 6.2%, Turkey 5.4%, Austria 4.8% (2007) 
				Russia
			Germany 13.3%, China 12.2%, Ukraine 6.7%, Japan 6.4%, US 4.8%, Belarus 4.4%, South Korea 4.4%, Italy 4.3% (2007) 
				Rwanda
			Kenya 19.6%, Uganda 6.9%, Germany 6.2%, Belgium 5.9%, China 5% (2007) 
				Saint Kitts and Nevis
			US 47.7%, Trinidad and Tobago 13.3%, UK 5.6% (2007) 
				Saint Lucia
			Brazil 63.6%, US 10.2%, Trinidad and Tobago 8.2% (2007) 
				Saint Vincent and the Grenadines
			Singapore 15.9%, Trinidad and Tobago 14.9%, Italy 13.3%, US 13%, China 5% (2007) 
				Samoa
			NZ 22.1%, Fiji 17.2%, Singapore 16.1%, Australia 7.9%, Japan 6.8%, Indonesia 5.4%, US 5.3% (2007) 
				Sao Tome and Principe
			Portugal 62.2%, US 11.6%, Gabon 4.5% (2007) 
				Saudi Arabia
			US 12.6%, China 9.4%, Germany 8.8%, Japan 8.1%, Italy 5%, South Korea 4.9%, UK 4.5% (2007) 
				Senegal
			France 22.2%, Netherlands 10%, China 7.4%, UK 6.2%, Thailand 5.2%, Belgium 4.5% (2007) 
				Seychelles
			Saudi Arabia 17.6%, Germany 10.8%, France 8.1%, Spain 7.6%, South Africa 6.4%, Singapore 5.8% (2007) 
				Sierra Leone
			Cote d'Ivoire 10%, China 10%, US 9.5%, UK 6.2%, Netherlands 5.1%, India 4.7% (2007) 
				Singapore
			Malaysia 13.1%, US 12.5%, China 12.1%, Japan 8.2%, Taiwan 5.9%, Indonesia 5.6%, South Korea 4.9% (2007) 
				Slovakia
			Germany 22.1%, Czech Republic 17.3%, Russia 9.2%, Hungary 6.7%, Austria 5.1%, Poland 4.9%, South Korea 4.7% (2007) 
				Slovenia
			Germany 18.1%, Italy 17.1%, Austria 11.7%, France 5%, Croatia 4.6% (2007) 
				Solomon Islands
			Singapore 28.2%, Australia 25.4%, Japan 4.6%, NZ 4.5%, Fiji 4% (2007) 
				Somalia
			Djibouti 34.4%, India 9.1%, Kenya 9%, Oman 6%, UAE 5.6%, Yemen 5.5% (2007) 
				South Africa
			Germany 10.9%, China 10%, Spain 8.2%, US 7.2%, Japan 6.1%, UK 4.5%, Saudi Arabia 4.2% (2007) 
				Spain
			Germany 15.7%, France 12.7%, Italy 8.4%, China 5.8%, UK 4.8%, Netherlands 4.6% (2007) 
				Sri Lanka
			India 23.1%, Singapore 9.9%, China 8.2%, Iran 7.5%, Hong Kong 6.4% (2007) 
				Sudan
			China 27.9%, Saudi Arabia 7.5%, India 6.3%, Egypt 5.6%, UAE 5.5%, Japan 4.2% (2007) 
				Suriname
			US 27%, Netherlands 17.3%, Trinidad and Tobago 14.3%, China 5.9%, Japan 5.1% (2007) 
				Sweden
			Germany 18.4%, Denmark 9.2%, Norway 8.3%, UK 6.8%, Finland 6.1%, Netherlands 5.8%, France 5%, China 4.3%, Belgium 4.1% (2007) 
				Switzerland
			Germany 32.6%, Italy 10.8%, France 9.5%, US 5.8%, Netherlands 4.6%, Austria 4.2%, UK 4.2% (2007) 
				Syria
			Saudi Arabia 12%, China 8.7%, Egypt 6.2%, Italy 6%, UAE 5.9%, Ukraine 4.8%, Russia 4.8%, Germany 4.7%, Iran 4.3% (2007) 
				Taiwan
			Japan 22.7%, US 13.3%, China 11.2%, South Korea 6.6%, Saudi Arabia 4.8%, Singapore 4.6% (2007) 
				Tajikistan
			Russia 32.1%, Kazakhstan 13.1%, China 10.8%, Uzbekistan 8.4% (2007) 
				Tanzania
			China 12%, Kenya 8%, South Africa 7.7%, India 6.9%, UAE 5.9% (2007) 
				Thailand
			Japan 20.3%, China 11.6%, US 6.8%, Malaysia 6.2%, UAE 4.9%, Singapore 4.5%, Taiwan 4.1% (2007) 
				Togo
			China 36.3%, Estonia 9.6%, US 7.6%, Netherlands 7.3%, France 7% (2007) 
				Tonga
			Fiji 32.5%, NZ 27.5%, US 9%, Australia 7.4%, China 5% (2007) 
				Trinidad and Tobago
			US 28.2%, Brazil 11%, Venezuela 8.2%, Colombia 5.4%, Gabon 4.9%, China 4.2% (2007) 
				Tunisia
			France 23.8%, Italy 21.9%, Germany 9.7%, Spain 5%, Libya 4.4% (2007) 
				Turkey
			Russia 13.8%, Germany 10.3%, China 7.8%, Italy 5.9%, US 4.8%, France 4.6% (2007) 
				Turkmenistan
			UAE 14.3%, Russia 11.6%, Turkey 10.3%, China 9.1%, Ukraine 8.7%, Iran 7%, Germany 6.5%, US 5.6% (2007) 
				Uganda
			Kenya 31.8%, China 7.8%, UAE 7.7%, South Africa 5.9%, India 5.2%, Japan 4.8% (2007) 
				Ukraine
			Russia 23.9%, Germany 11.8%, China 8.5%, Poland 8.1%, Turkmenistan 5.4% (2007) 
				United Arab Emirates
			China 12.8%, India 10%, US 8.7%, Japan 6.1%, Germany 5.9%, UK 5.3%, Italy 4.6% (2007) 
				United Kingdom
			Germany 14.2%, US 8.6%, China 7.3%, Netherlands 7.3%, France 6.9%, Belgium 4.7%, Norway 4.7%, Italy 4.2% (2007) 
				United States
			China 16.9%, Canada 15.7%, Mexico 10.6%, Japan 7.4%, Germany 4.8% (2007) 
				Uruguay
			Brazil 19.1%, Argentina 17.9%, US 9.5%, China 9.1%, Paraguay 7.7%, Nigeria 4.7% (2007) 
				Uzbekistan
			Russia 30.1%, China 13.3%, South Korea 13%, Germany 6.3%, Kazakhstan 6.2%, Ukraine 4% (2007) 
				Vanuatu
			Australia 20.7%, Singapore 11.8%, NZ 11.2%, Norway 8.5%, US 8.3%, Fiji 8.1%, China 7.2%, New Caledonia 4.5% (2007) 
				Venezuela
			US 26.6%, Colombia 13.5%, Brazil 9.5%, China 6.7%, Mexico 5.2%, Panama 5% (2007) 
				Vietnam
			China 19.9%, Singapore 12.1%, Taiwan 11%, Japan 9.9%, South Korea 8.5%, Thailand 6% (2007) 
				World
			China 10.7%, Germany 9.2%, US 8.3%, Japan 5.1%, France 4% (2007) 
				Yemen
			UAE 15.1%, China 11.6%, US 7.8%, Saudi Arabia 7.1%, Kuwait 5.3%, Germany 4.8% (2007) 
				Zambia
			South Africa 47.4%, UAE 6.3%, China 6%, India 4.1%, UK 4% (2007) 
				Zimbabwe
			South Africa 50.7%, China 8.4%, US 4.5%, Botswana 4.3% (2007)  		
				This page was last updated on 19 March 2009
&nbsp; 
CIA - The World Factbook -- Field Listing - Household income or consumption by percentage share
&nbsp; 
				    &nbsp; 
                    Field Listing - Household income or consumption by percentage share
         Home 
          &nbsp;Reference Maps 
          &nbsp;Appendixes 
			Country
			Household income or consumption by percentage share (%) 
				Afghanistan
				lowest 10%: NA% 
				highest 10%: NA% 
				Albania
				lowest 10%: 3.4% 
				highest 10%: 24.4% (2004) 
				Algeria
				lowest 10%: 2.8% 
				highest 10%: 26.8% (1995) 
				American Samoa
				lowest 10%: NA% 
				highest 10%: NA% 
				Andorra
				lowest 10%: NA% 
				highest 10%: NA% 
				Angola
				lowest 10%: NA% 
				highest 10%: NA% 
				Anguilla
				lowest 10%: NA% 
				highest 10%: NA% 
				Antigua and Barbuda
				lowest 10%: NA% 
				highest 10%: NA% 
				Argentina
				lowest 10%: 1% 
				highest 10%: 35% (January-March 2007) 
				Armenia
				lowest 10%: 1.6% 
				highest 10%: 41.3% (2004) 
				Aruba
				lowest 10%: NA% 
				highest 10%: NA% 
				Australia
				lowest 10%: 2% 
				highest 10%: 25.4% (1994) 
				Austria
				lowest 10%: 3.3% 
				highest 10%: 22.5% (2004) 
				Azerbaijan
				lowest 10%: 3.1% 
				highest 10%: 29.5% (2001) 
				Bahamas, The
				lowest 10%: NA% 
				highest 10%: 27% (2000) 
				Bahrain
				lowest 10%: NA% 
				highest 10%: NA% 
				Bangladesh
				lowest 10%: 3.7% 
				highest 10%: 27.9% (2000 est.) 
				Barbados
				lowest 10%: NA% 
				highest 10%: NA% 
				Belarus
				lowest 10%: 3.4% 
				highest 10%: 23.5% (2002) 
				Belgium
				lowest 10%: 3.4% 
				highest 10%: 28.4% (2006) 
				Belize
				lowest 10%: NA% 
				highest 10%: NA% 
				Benin
				lowest 10%: 3.1% 
				highest 10%: 29% (2003) 
				Bermuda
				lowest 10%: NA% 
				highest 10%: NA% 
				Bhutan
				lowest 10%: NA% 
				highest 10%: NA% 
				Bolivia
				lowest 10%: 0.3% 
				highest 10%: 47.2% (2002) 
				Bosnia and Herzegovina
				lowest 10%: 3.9% 
				highest 10%: 21.4% (2001) 
				Botswana
				lowest 10%: NA% 
				highest 10%: NA% 
				Brazil
				lowest 10%: 0.9% 
				highest 10%: 44.8% (2004) 
				British Virgin Islands
				lowest 10%: NA% 
				highest 10%: NA% 
				Brunei
				lowest 10%: NA% 
				highest 10%: NA% 
				Bulgaria
				lowest 10%: 3% 
				highest 10%: 25.5% (2007) 
				Burkina Faso
				lowest 10%: 2.8% 
				highest 10%: 32.2% (2004) 
				Burma
				lowest 10%: 2.8% 
				highest 10%: 32.4% (1998) 
				Burundi
				lowest 10%: 1.7% 
				highest 10%: 32.8% (1998) 
				Cambodia
				lowest 10%: 2.9% 
				highest 10%: 34.8% (2004) 
				Cameroon
				lowest 10%: 2.3% 
				highest 10%: 35.4% (2001) 
				Canada
				lowest 10%: 2.6% 
				highest 10%: 24.8% (2000) 
				Cape Verde
				lowest 10%: NA% 
				highest 10%: NA% 
				Cayman Islands
				lowest 10%: NA% 
				highest 10%: NA% 
				Central African Republic
				lowest 10%: 0.7% 
				highest 10%: 47.7% (1993) 
				Chad
				lowest 10%: NA% 
				highest 10%: NA% 
				Chile
				lowest 10%: 1.4% 
				highest 10%: 45% (2003) 
				China
				lowest 10%: 1.6% 
				highest 10%: 34.9% (2004) 
				Colombia
				lowest 10%: 7.9% 
				highest 10%: 34.3% (2004) 
				Comoros
				lowest 10%: NA% 
				highest 10%: NA% 
				Congo, Democratic Republic of the
				lowest 10%: NA% 
				highest 10%: NA% 
				Congo, Republic of the
				lowest 10%: NA% 
				highest 10%: NA% 
				Cook Islands
				lowest 10%: NA% 
				highest 10%: NA% 
				Costa Rica
				lowest 10%: 1% 
				highest 10%: 37.4% (2003) 
				Cote d'Ivoire
				lowest 10%: 2% 
				highest 10%: 34% (2002) 
				Croatia
				lowest 10%: 3.4% 
				highest 10%: 24.5% (2003 est.) 
				Cuba
				lowest 10%: NA% 
				highest 10%: NA% 
				Cyprus
				lowest 10%: NA% 
				highest 10%: NA% 
				Czech Republic
				lowest 10%: 4.3% 
				highest 10%: 22.4% (1996) 
				Denmark
				lowest 10%: 2% 
				highest 10%: 24% (2000 est.) 
				Djibouti
				lowest 10%: NA% 
				highest 10%: NA% 
				Dominica
				lowest 10%: NA% 
				highest 10%: NA% 
				Dominican Republic
				lowest 10%: 1.4% 
				highest 10%: 41.1% (2004) 
				Ecuador
				lowest 10%: 2% 
				highest 10%: 35% 
				note: data for urban households only (October 2006) 
				Egypt
				lowest 10%: 3.7% 
				highest 10%: 29.5% (2000) 
				El Salvador
				lowest 10%: 0.7% 
				highest 10%: 38.8% (2002) 
				Equatorial Guinea
				lowest 10%: NA% 
				highest 10%: NA% 
				Eritrea
				lowest 10%: NA% 
				highest 10%: NA% 
				Estonia
				lowest 10%: 2.5% 
				highest 10%: 27.6% (2003) 
				Ethiopia
				lowest 10%: 3.9% 
				highest 10%: 25.5% (2000) 
				European Union
				lowest 10%: 2.8% 
				highest 10%: 25.2% (2001 est.) 
				Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas)
				lowest 10%: NA% 
				highest 10%: NA% 
				Faroe Islands
				lowest 10%: NA% 
				highest 10%: NA% 
				Fiji
				lowest 10%: NA% 
				highest 10%: NA% 
				Finland
				lowest 10%: 3.6% 
				highest 10%: 24.7% (2007) 
				France
				lowest 10%: 3% 
				highest 10%: 24.8% (2004) 
				French Polynesia
				lowest 10%: NA% 
				highest 10%: NA% 
				Gabon
				lowest 10%: NA% 
				highest 10%: NA% 
				Gambia, The
				lowest 10%: 1.8% 
				highest 10%: 37% (1998) 
				Gaza Strip
				lowest 10%: NA% 
				highest 10%: NA% 
				Georgia
				lowest 10%: 2.4% 
				highest 10%: 27% (2005) 
				Germany
				lowest 10%: 3.2% 
				highest 10%: 22.1% (2000) 
				Ghana
				lowest 10%: 2.2% 
				highest 10%: 30.1% (1999) 
				Gibraltar
				lowest 10%: NA% 
				highest 10%: NA% 
				Greece
				lowest 10%: 2.5% 
				highest 10%: 26% (2000 est.) 
				Greenland
				lowest 10%: NA% 
				highest 10%: NA% 
				Grenada
				lowest 10%: NA% 
				highest 10%: NA% 
				Guam
				lowest 10%: NA% 
				highest 10%: NA% 
				Guatemala
				lowest 10%: 0.9% 
				highest 10%: 43.4% (2002) 
				Guernsey
				lowest 10%: NA% 
				highest 10%: NA% 
				Guinea
				lowest 10%: 1.9% 
				highest 10%: 41% (2006) 
				Guinea-Bissau
				lowest 10%: 0.5% 
				highest 10%: 42.4% (1991) 
				Guyana
				lowest 10%: 1.3% 
				highest 10%: 33.8% (1999) 
				Haiti
				lowest 10%: 0.7% 
				highest 10%: 47.7% (2001) 
				Honduras
				lowest 10%: 1.2% 
				highest 10%: 42.2% (2003) 
				Hong Kong
				lowest 10%: NA% 
				highest 10%: NA% 
				Hungary
				lowest 10%: 4% 
				highest 10%: 22.2% (2002) 
				Iceland
				lowest 10%: NA% 
				highest 10%: NA% 
				India
				lowest 10%: 3.6% 
				highest 10%: 31.1% (2004) 
				Indonesia
				lowest 10%: 3.6% 
				highest 10%: 28.5% (2002) 
				Iran
				lowest 10%: 2% 
				highest 10%: 33.7% (1998) 
				Iraq
				lowest 10%: NA% 
				highest 10%: NA% 
				Ireland
				lowest 10%: 2.9% 
				highest 10%: 27.2% (2000) 
				Isle of Man
				lowest 10%: NA% 
				highest 10%: NA% 
				Israel
				lowest 10%: 2.6% 
				highest 10%: 24.2% (2007) 
				Italy
				lowest 10%: 2.3% 
				highest 10%: 26.8% (2000) 
				Jamaica
				lowest 10%: 2.1% 
				highest 10%: 35.8% (2004) 
				Japan
				lowest 10%: 4.8% 
				highest 10%: 21.7% (1993) 
				Jersey
				lowest 10%: NA% 
				highest 10%: NA% 
				Jordan
				lowest 10%: 2.7% 
				highest 10%: 30.6% (2003) 
				Kazakhstan
				lowest 10%: 3.3% 
				highest 10%: 26.5% (2004 est.) 
				Kenya
				lowest 10%: 2% 
				highest 10%: 37.2% (2000) 
				Kiribati
				lowest 10%: NA% 
				highest 10%: NA% 
				Korea, North
				lowest 10%: NA% 
				highest 10%: NA% 
				Korea, South
				lowest 10%: 2.7% 
				highest 10%: 24.2% (2007) 
				Kuwait
				lowest 10%: NA% 
				highest 10%: NA% 
				Kyrgyzstan
				lowest 10%: 3.8% 
				highest 10%: 24.3% (2003) 
				Laos
				lowest 10%: 3.4% 
				highest 10%: 28.5% (2002) 
				Latvia
				lowest 10%: 2.5% 
				highest 10%: 29.1% (2003) 
				Lebanon
				lowest 10%: NA% 
				highest 10%: NA% 
				Lesotho
				lowest 10%: 0.9% 
				highest 10%: 43.4% (2002 est.) 
				Liberia
				lowest 10%: NA% 
				highest 10%: NA% 
				Libya
				lowest 10%: NA% 
				highest 10%: NA% 
				Liechtenstein
				lowest 10%: NA% 
				highest 10%: NA% 
				Lithuania
				lowest 10%: 2.7% 
				highest 10%: 27.7% (2003) 
				Luxembourg
				lowest 10%: 3.5% 
				highest 10%: 23.8% (2000) 
				Macau
				lowest 10%: NA% 
				highest 10%: NA% 
				Macedonia
				lowest 10%: 2.4% 
				highest 10%: 29.6% (2003) 
				Madagascar
				lowest 10%: 1.9% 
				highest 10%: 36.6% (2001) 
				Malawi
				lowest 10%: 2.9% 
				highest 10%: 31.8% (2004) 
				Malaysia
				lowest 10%: 1.4% 
				highest 10%: 39.2% (2003 est.) 
				Maldives
				lowest 10%: NA% 
				highest 10%: NA% 
				Mali
				lowest 10%: 2.4% 
				highest 10%: 30.2% (2001) 
				Malta
				lowest 10%: NA% 
				highest 10%: NA% 
				Marshall Islands
				lowest 10%: NA% 
				highest 10%: NA% 
				Mauritania
				lowest 10%: 2.5% 
				highest 10%: 29.5% (2000) 
				Mauritius
				lowest 10%: NA% 
				highest 10%: NA% 
				Mayotte
				lowest 10%: NA% 
				highest 10%: NA% 
				Mexico
				lowest 10%: 1.2% 
				highest 10%: 37% (2006) 
				Micronesia, Federated States of
				lowest 10%: NA% 
				highest 10%: NA% 
				Moldova
				lowest 10%: 3.2% 
				highest 10%: 26.4% (2003) 
				Monaco
				lowest 10%: NA% 
				highest 10%: NA% 
				Mongolia
				lowest 10%: 3% 
				highest 10%: 24.6% (2002) 
				Montserrat
				lowest 10%: NA% 
				highest 10%: NA% 
				Morocco
				lowest 10%: 2.6% 
				highest 10%: 30.9% (1999) 
				Mozambique
				lowest 10%: 2.1% 
				highest 10%: 39.4% (2002) 
				Namibia
				lowest 10%: 0.5% 
				highest 10%: 64.5% (2003) 
				Nauru
				lowest 10%: NA% 
				highest 10%: NA% 
				Nepal
				lowest 10%: 2.6% 
				highest 10%: 40.6% (2004) 
				Netherlands
				lowest 10%: 2.5% 
				highest 10%: 22.9% (1999) 
				Netherlands Antilles
				lowest 10%: NA% 
				highest 10%: NA% 
				New Caledonia
				lowest 10%: NA% 
				highest 10%: NA% 
				New Zealand
				lowest 10%: %NA 
				highest 10%: %NA 
				Nicaragua
				lowest 10%: 2.2% 
				highest 10%: 33.8% (2001) 
				Niger
				lowest 10%: 0.8% 
				highest 10%: 35.4% (1995) 
				Nigeria
				lowest 10%: 1.9% 
				highest 10%: 33.2% (2003) 
				Niue
				lowest 10%: NA% 
				highest 10%: NA% 
				Northern Mariana Islands
				lowest 10%: NA% 
				highest 10%: NA% 
				Norway
				lowest 10%: 3.9% 
				highest 10%: 23.4% (2000) 
				Oman
				lowest 10%: NA% 
				highest 10%: NA% 
				Pakistan
				lowest 10%: 4% 
				highest 10%: 26.3% (2002) 
				Palau
				lowest 10%: NA% 
				highest 10%: NA% 
				Panama
				lowest 10%: 0.7% 
				highest 10%: 43% (2003) 
				Papua New Guinea
				lowest 10%: 1.7% 
				highest 10%: 40.5% (1996) 
				Paraguay
				lowest 10%: 0.7% 
				highest 10%: 46.1% (2003) 
				Peru
				lowest 10%: 1.3% 
				highest 10%: 40.9% (2003) 
				Philippines
				lowest 10%: 2.4% 
				highest 10%: 31.2% (2006) 
				Poland
				lowest 10%: 3.1% 
				highest 10%: 27% (2002) 
				Portugal
				lowest 10%: 3.1% 
				highest 10%: 28.4% (1995 est.) 
				Puerto Rico
				lowest 10%: NA% 
				highest 10%: NA% 
				Qatar
				lowest 10%: NA% 
				highest 10%: NA% 
				Romania
				lowest 10%: 1.2% 
				highest 10%: 20.8% (2006) 
				Russia
				lowest 10%: 1.9% 
				highest 10%: 30.4% (September 2007) 
				Rwanda
				lowest 10%: 2.1% 
				highest 10%: 38.2% (2000) 
				Saint Helena
				lowest 10%: NA% 
				highest 10%: NA% 
				Saint Kitts and Nevis
				lowest 10%: NA% 
				highest 10%: NA% 
				Saint Lucia
				lowest 10%: NA% 
				highest 10%: NA% 
				Saint Pierre and Miquelon
				lowest 10%: NA% 
				highest 10%: NA% 
				Saint Vincent and the Grenadines
				lowest 10%: NA% 
				highest 10%: NA% 
				Samoa
				lowest 10%: NA% 
				highest 10%: NA% 
				San Marino
				lowest 10%: NA% 
				highest 10%: NA% 
				Sao Tome and Principe
				lowest 10%: NA% 
				highest 10%: NA% 
				Saudi Arabia
				lowest 10%: NA% 
				highest 10%: NA% 
				Senegal
				lowest 10%: 2.7% 
				highest 10%: 33.4% (2001) 
				Seychelles
				lowest 10%: NA% 
				highest 10%: NA% 
				Sierra Leone
				lowest 10%: 0.5% 
				highest 10%: 43.6% (1989) 
				Singapore
				lowest 10%: 4.4% 
				highest 10%: 23.2% (2008) 
				Slovakia
				lowest 10%: 3.1% 
				highest 10%: 20.9% (1996) 
				Slovenia
				lowest 10%: 3.6% 
				highest 10%: 21.4% (1998) 
				Solomon Islands
				lowest 10%: NA% 
				highest 10%: NA% 
				Somalia
				lowest 10%: NA% 
				highest 10%: NA% 
				South Africa
				lowest 10%: 1.4% 
				highest 10%: 44.7% (2000) 
				Spain
				lowest 10%: 2.6% 
				highest 10%: 26.6% (2000) 
				Sri Lanka
				lowest 10%: 1.1% 
				highest 10%: 39.7% (FY03/04) 
				Sudan
				lowest 10%: NA% 
				highest 10%: NA% 
				Suriname
				lowest 10%: NA% 
				highest 10%: NA% 
				Swaziland
				lowest 10%: 1.6% 
				highest 10%: 40.7% (2001) 
				Sweden
				lowest 10%: 3.6% 
				highest 10%: 22.2% (2000) 
				Switzerland
				lowest 10%: 2.9% 
				highest 10%: 25.9% (2000) 
				Syria
				lowest 10%: NA% 
				highest 10%: NA% 
				Taiwan
				lowest 10%: 6.7% 
				highest 10%: 41.1% (2002 est.) 
				Tajikistan
				lowest 10%: 3.3% 
				highest 10%: 25.6% (2007 est.) 
				Tanzania
				lowest 10%: 2.9% 
				highest 10%: 26.9% (2000) 
				Thailand
				lowest 10%: 2.7% 
				highest 10%: 33.4% (2002) 
				Timor-Leste
				lowest 10%: NA% 
				highest 10%: NA% 
				Togo
				lowest 10%: NA% 
				highest 10%: NA% 
				Tonga
				lowest 10%: NA% 
				highest 10%: NA% 
				Trinidad and Tobago
				lowest 10%: NA% 
				highest 10%: NA% 
				Tunisia
				lowest 10%: 2.3% 
				highest 10%: 31.5% (2000) 
				Turkey
				lowest 10%: 2% 
				highest 10%: 34.1% (2003) 
				Turkmenistan
				lowest 10%: 2.6% 
				highest 10%: 31.7% (1998) 
				Turks and Caicos Islands
				lowest 10%: NA% 
				highest 10%: NA% 
				Tuvalu
				lowest 10%: NA% 
				highest 10%: NA% 
				Uganda
				lowest 10%: 2.3% 
				highest 10%: 37.7% (2002) 
				Ukraine
				lowest 10%: 3.4% 
				highest 10%: 25.7% (2006) 
				United Arab Emirates
				lowest 10%: NA% 
				highest 10%: NA% 
				United Kingdom
				lowest 10%: 2.1% 
				highest 10%: 28.5% (1999) 
				United States
				lowest 10%: 2% 
				highest 10%: 30% (2007 est.) 
				Uruguay
				lowest 10%: 1.9% 
				highest 10%: 34% (2003) 
				Uzbekistan
				lowest 10%: 2.8% 
				highest 10%: 29.6% (2003) 
				Vanuatu
				lowest 10%: NA% 
				highest 10%: NA% 
				Venezuela
				lowest 10%: 0.7% 
				highest 10%: 35.2% (2003) 
				Vietnam
				lowest 10%: 2.9% 
				highest 10%: 28.9% (2004) 
				Virgin Islands
				lowest 10%: NA% 
				highest 10%: NA% 
				Wallis and Futuna
				lowest 10%: NA% 
				highest 10%: NA% 
				West Bank
				lowest 10%: NA% 
				highest 10%: NA% 
				Western Sahara
				lowest 10%: NA% 
				highest 10%: NA% 
				World
				lowest 10%: 2.5% 
				highest 10%: 29.9% (2002 est.) 
				Yemen
				lowest 10%: 3% 
				highest 10%: 25.9% (2003) 
				Zambia
				lowest 10%: 1.2% 
				highest 10%: 38.8% (2004) 
				Zimbabwe
				lowest 10%: 2% 
				highest 10%: 40.4% (1995)  		
				This page was last updated on 19 March 2009
&nbsp; 
CIA - The World Factbook -- Field Listing - Electricity - consumption
&nbsp; 
				    &nbsp; 
                    Field Listing - Electricity - consumption
         Home 
          &nbsp;Reference Maps 
          &nbsp;Appendixes 
          		&nbsp;Rank Order List
			Country
			Electricity - consumption (kWh) 
				Afghanistan
			1.418 billion kWh (2007 est.) 
				Albania
			3.607 billion kWh (2007 est.) 
				Algeria
			26.91 billion kWh (2006 est.) 
				American Samoa
			167.4 million kWh (2006 est.) 
				Andorra
			NA kWh 
				Angola
			3.084 billion kWh (2006 est.) 
				Antigua and Barbuda
			97.65 million kWh (2006 est.) 
				Argentina
			97.72 billion kWh (2006 est.) 
				Armenia
			4.539 billion kWh (2006 est.) 
				Aruba
			744 million kWh (2006 est.) 
				Australia
			220 billion kWh (2006 est.) 
				Austria
			62.35 billion kWh (2006 est.) 
				Azerbaijan
			27.5 billion kWh (2007 est.) 
				Bahamas, The
			1.793 billion kWh (2006 est.) 
				Bahrain
			8.742 billion kWh (2006 est.) 
				Bangladesh
			21.37 billion kWh (2006 est.) 
				Barbados
			939.9 million kWh (2007 est.) 
				Belarus
			30.43 billion kWh (2006 est.) 
				Belgium
			85.54 billion kWh (2006 est.) 
				Belize
			193.3 million kWh (2006 est.) 
				Benin
			595 million kWh (2006 est.) 
				Bermuda
			619.8 million kWh (2006 est.) 
				Bhutan
			528.8 million kWh (2007 est.) 
				Bolivia
			5.092 billion kWh (2007 est.) 
				Bosnia and Herzegovina
			8.501 billion kWh (2006 est.) 
				Botswana
			2.574 billion kWh (2006 est.) 
				Brazil
			402.2 billion kWh (2007 est.) 
				British Indian Ocean Territory
			NA kWh 
				British Virgin Islands
			41.85 million kWh (2006 est.) 
				Brunei
			2.758 billion kWh (2007 est.) 
				Bulgaria
			28.8 billion kWh (2007 est.) 
				Burkina Faso
			509.3 million kWh (2006 est.) 
				Burma
			4.289 billion kWh (2006 est.) 
				Burundi
			120.9 million kWh (2006 est.) 
				Cambodia
			1.178 billion kWh (2006 est.) 
				Cameroon
			3.323 billion kWh (2006 est.) 
				Canada
			530 billion kWh (2006 est.) 
				Cape Verde
			43.71 million kWh (2006 est.) 
				Cayman Islands
			546.1 million kWh (2007 est.) 
				Central African Republic
			102.3 million kWh (2006 est.) 
				Chad
			88.35 million kWh (2006 est.) 
				Chile
			45.52 billion kWh (2006 est.) 
				China
			3.271 trillion kWh (2007) 
				Colombia
			52.8 billion kWh (2007) 
				Comoros
			18.6 million kWh (2006 est.) 
				Congo, Democratic Republic of the
			5.158 billion kWh (2006 est.) 
				Congo, Republic of the
			564 million kWh (2006 est.) 
				Cook Islands
			27.9 million kWh (2006 est.) 
				Costa Rica
			7.779 billion kWh (2006 est.) 
				Cote d'Ivoire
			3.177 billion kWh (2006 est.) 
				Croatia
			18.61 billion kWh (2007) 
				Cuba
			14.67 billion kWh (2007 est.) 
				Cyprus
			4.151 billion kWh (2006 est.) 
				Czech Republic
			61.52 billion kWh (2006 est.) 
				Denmark
			34.68 billion kWh (2006 est.) 
				Djibouti
			232.5 million kWh (2006 est.) 
				Dominica
			83.7 million kWh (2006 est.) 
				Dominican Republic
			11.81 billion kWh (2006 est.) 
				Ecuador
			12.9 billion kWh (2006 est.) 
				Egypt
			96.2 billion kWh (2006 est.) 
				El Salvador
			4.426 billion kWh (2007 est.) 
				Equatorial Guinea
			25.11 million kWh (2006 est.) 
				Eritrea
			216 million kWh (2006 est.) 
				Estonia
			7.18 billion kWh (2007) 
				Ethiopia
			2.941 billion kWh (2006 est.) 
				European Union
			2.926 trillion kWh (2007 est.) 
				Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas)
			14.88 million kWh (2006 est.) 
				Faroe Islands
			274.4 million kWh (2006 est.) 
				Fiji
			1.016 billion kWh (2006 est.) 
				Finland
			86.9 billion kWh (2008) 
				France
			480 billion kWh (2007 est.) 
				French Polynesia
			441.8 million kWh (2006 est.) 
				Gabon
			1.365 billion kWh (2006 est.) 
				Gambia, The
			143.6 million kWh (2006 est.) 
				Gaza Strip
			230,000 kWh (2005) 
				Georgia
			6.694 billion kWh (2006 est.) 
				Germany
			549.1 billion kWh (2006 est.) 
				Ghana
			6.76 billion kWh (2006 est.) 
				Gibraltar
			142 million kWh (2006 est.) 
				Greece
			55.98 billion kWh (2006 est.) 
				Greenland
			283.7 million kWh (2006 est.) 
				Grenada
			144.2 million kWh (2006 est.) 
				Guam
			1.664 billion kWh (2006 est.) 
				Guatemala
			6.617 billion kWh (2006 est.) 
				Guernsey
			NA kWh 
				Guinea
			744 million kWh (2006 est.) 
				Guinea-Bissau
			55.8 million kWh (2006 est.) 
				Guyana
			600 million kWh (2007) 
				Haiti
			330 million kWh (2006 est.) 
				Holy See (Vatican City)
			NA kWh 
				Honduras
			4.233 billion kWh (2006 est.) 
				Hong Kong
			44.6 billion kWh (2008 est.) 
				Hungary
			37.11 billion kWh (2006 est.) 
				Iceland
			9.312 billion kWh (2006 est.) 
				India
			517.2 billion kWh (2006 est.) 
				Indonesia
			110.7 billion kWh (2006 est.) 
				Iran
			145 billion kWh (2006 est.) 
				Iraq
			39.88 billion kWh (2008 est.) 
				Ireland
			25.67 billion kWh (2006 est.) 
				Israel
			44.74 billion kWh (2006 est.) 
				Italy
			316.3 billion kWh (2006 est.) 
				Jamaica
			6.1 billion kWh (2006 est.) 
				Japan
			1.08 trillion kWh (2006 est.) 
				Jersey
			630.1 million kWh (2004 est.) 
				Jordan
			9.852 billion kWh (2006 est.) 
				Kazakhstan
			61.81 billion kWh (2006 est.) 
				Kenya
			5.124 billion kWh (2006 est.) 
				Kiribati
			9.3 million kWh (2006 est.) 
				Korea, North
			18.18 billion kWh (2006 est.) 
				Korea, South
			385.1 billion kWh (2008 est.) 
				Kosovo
			4.281 billion kWh (2006) 
				Kuwait
			39.54 billion kWh (2006 est.) 
				Kyrgyzstan
			8.997 billion kWh (2006 est.) 
				Laos
			1.344 billion kWh (2006 est.) 
				Latvia
			6.424 billion kWh (2006 est.) 
				Lebanon
			8.161 billion kWh (2006 est.) 
				Lesotho
			226 million kWh (2006 est.) 
				Liberia
			297.6 million kWh (2006 est.) 
				Libya
			20.71 billion kWh (2006 est.) 
				Lithuania
			10.4 billion kWh (2006 est.) 
				Luxembourg
			6.748 billion kWh (2006 est.) 
				Macau
			3.311 billion kWh (2008 est.) 
				Macedonia
			8.651 billion kWh (2007) 
				Madagascar
			907 million kWh (2006 est.) 
				Malawi
			1.051 billion kWh (2006 est.) 
				Malaysia
			95.98 billion kWh (2006 est.) 
				Maldives
			203.7 million kWh (2006 est.) 
				Mali
			469.7 million kWh (2006 est.) 
				Malta
			1.85 billion kWh (2006 est.) 
				Mauritania
			383.4 million kWh (2006 est.) 
				Mauritius
			2.058 billion kWh (2006 est.) 
				Mayotte
			139.2 million kWh (2005) 
				Mexico
			202 billion kWh (2007 est.) 
				Micronesia, Federated States of
			178.6 million kWh (2002) 
				Moldova
			5.806 billion kWh (2006 est.) 
				Monaco
			NA kWh 
				Mongolia
			2.638 billion kWh (2006 est.) 
				Montenegro
			18.6 million kWh (2005) 
				Montserrat
			20.46 million kWh (2006 est.) 
				Morocco
			19.58 billion kWh (2006 est.) 
				Mozambique
			9.555 billion kWh (2006 est.) 
				Namibia
			3.194 billion kWh (2006 est.) 
				Nauru
			28.83 million kWh (2006 est.) 
				Nepal
			2.276 billion kWh (2006 est.) 
				Netherlands
			122.8 billion kWh (2007) 
				Netherlands Antilles
			992 million kWh (2006 est.) 
				New Caledonia
			1.49 billion kWh (2006 est.) 
				New Zealand
			38.93 billion kWh (2006 est.) 
				Nicaragua
			2.413 billion kWh (2006 est.) 
				Niger
			443.2 million kWh (2006 est.) 
				Nigeria
			15.85 billion kWh (2006 est.) 
				Niue
			3.72 million kWh (2006 est.) 
				Norfolk Island
			NA kWh 
				Northern Mariana Islands
			NA kWh 
				Norway
			128.8 billion kWh (2008 est.) 
				Oman
			11.19 billion kWh (2007) 
				Pakistan
			68.4 billion kWh (2006 est.) 
				Panama
			4.768 billion kWh (2006 est.) 
				Papua New Guinea
			2.674 billion kWh (2006 est.) 
				Paraguay
			6 billion kWh (2007) 
				Peru
			28.97 billion kWh (2008 est.) 
				Philippines
			47.04 billion kWh (2006 est.) 
				Poland
			126.2 billion kWh (2006 est.) 
				Portugal
			48.02 billion kWh (2006 est.) 
				Puerto Rico
			22.17 billion kWh (2006 est.) 
				Qatar
			13.19 billion kWh (2006 est.) 
				Romania
			48.43 billion kWh (2006 est.) 
				Russia
			1.003 trillion kWh (2006 est.) 
				Rwanda
			234.6 million kWh (2006 est.) 
				Saint Helena
			7.44 million kWh (2006 est.) 
				Saint Kitts and Nevis
			120.9 million kWh (2006 est.) 
				Saint Lucia
			289.2 million kWh (2006 est.) 
				Saint Pierre and Miquelon
			49.29 million kWh (2006 est.) 
				Saint Vincent and the Grenadines
			120 million kWh (2006 est.) 
				Samoa
			101.4 million kWh (2006 est.) 
				Sao Tome and Principe
			16.74 million kWh (2006 est.) 
				Saudi Arabia
			156.8 billion kWh (2006 est.) 
				Senegal
			1.657 billion kWh (2006 est.) 
				Serbia
			NA kWh 
				Seychelles
			193.4 million kWh (2006 est.) 
				Sierra Leone
			232.5 million kWh (2006 est.) 
				Singapore
			37.42 billion kWh (2007) 
				Slovakia
			26 billion kWh (2006 est.) 
				Slovenia
			13.4 billion kWh (2006 est.) 
				Solomon Islands
			70 million kWh (2007 est.) 
				Somalia
			260.4 million kWh (2006 est.) 
				South Africa
			241.4 billion kWh (2007) 
				Spain
			276.1 billion kWh (2008 est.) 
				Sri Lanka
			8.276 billion kWh (2007 est.) 
				Sudan
			3.398 billion kWh (2006 est.) 
				Suriname
			1.457 billion kWh (2006 est.) 
				Swaziland
			1.2 billion kWh (2007) 
				Sweden
			133.6 billion kWh (2006 est.) 
				Switzerland
			58.77 billion kWh (2006 est.) 
				Syria
			39.5 billion kWh (2007) 
				Taiwan
			233 billion kWh (2008 est.) 
				Tajikistan
			17.9 billion kWh (2007) 
				Tanzania
			2.225 billion kWh (2006 est.) 
				Thailand
			138.6 billion kWh (2007 est.) 
				Timor-Leste
			NA kWh 
				Togo
			607 million kWh (2006 est.) 
				Tokelau
			NA kWh 
				Tonga
			39.99 million kWh (2006 est.) 
				Trinidad and Tobago
			7.083 billion kWh (2007) 
				Tunisia
			10.75 billion kWh (2006 est.) 
				Turkey
			141.5 billion kWh (2006 est.) 
				Turkmenistan
			9.584 billion kWh (2006 est.) 
				Turks and Caicos Islands
			9.3 million kWh (2006 est.) 
				Uganda
			899.7 million kWh (2006 est.) 
				Ukraine
			148.1 billion kWh (2006 est.) 
				United Arab Emirates
			57.88 billion kWh (2006 est.) 
				United Kingdom
			348.5 billion kWh (2006 est.) 
				United States
			3.892 trillion kWh (2007 est.) 
				Uruguay
			7.03 billion kWh (2007) 
				Uzbekistan
			42.23 billion kWh (2006 est.) 
				Vanuatu
			39.99 million kWh (2006 est.) 
				Venezuela
			83.84 billion kWh (2006 est.) 
				Vietnam
			48.08 billion kWh (2006 est.) 
				Virgin Islands
			892.8 million kWh (2006 est.) 
				Wallis and Futuna
			NA kWh 
				West Bank
			NA kWh 
				Western Sahara
			83.7 million kWh (2006 est.) 
				World
			17.48 trillion kWh (2007 est.) 
				Yemen
			3.804 billion kWh (2006 est.) 
				Zambia
			8.625 billion kWh (2006 est.) 
				Zimbabwe
			11.59 billion kWh (2006 est.)  		
				This page was last updated on 19 March 2009
&nbsp; 
CIA - The World Factbook -- Field Listing - School life expectancy (primary to tertiary education)
&nbsp; 
				    &nbsp; 
                    Field Listing - School life expectancy (primary to tertiary education)
         Home 
          &nbsp;Reference Maps 
          &nbsp;Appendixes 
			Country
			School life expectancy (primary to tertiary education) (years) 
				Afghanistan
				total: 8 years 
				male: 11 years 
				female: 4 years (2004) 
				Albania
				total: 11 years 
				male: 11 years 
				female: 11 years (2004) 
				Algeria
				total: 13 years 
				male: 13 years 
				female: 13 years (2005) 
				Andorra
				total: 11 years 
				male: 11 years 
				female: 11 years (2006) 
				Anguilla
				total: 11 years 
				male: 11 years 
				female: 11 years (2006) 
				Argentina
				total: 15 years 
				male: 14 years 
				female: 16 years (2005) 
				Armenia
				total: 11 years 
				male: 11 years 
				female: 12 years (2006) 
				Aruba
				total: 14 years 
				male: 13 years 
				female: 14 years (2006) 
				Australia
				total: 20 years 
				male: 20 years 
				female: 21 years (2006) 
				Austria
				total: 15 years 
				male: 15 years 
				female: 16 years (2006) 
				Azerbaijan
				total: 11 years 
				male: 11 years 
				female: 11 years (2006) 
				Bahrain
				total: 15 years 
				male: 14 years 
				female: 16 years (2006) 
				Bangladesh
				total: 8 years 
				male: 8 years 
				female: 8 years (2004) 
				Barbados
				total: 13 years 
				male: 13 years 
				female: 14 years (2001) 
				Belarus
				total: 15 years 
				male: 14 years 
				female: 15 years (2006) 
				Belgium
				total: 16 years 
				male: 16 years 
				female: 16 years (2006) 
				Belize
				total: 13 years 
				male: 13 years 
				female: 13 years (2004) 
				Benin
				total: 7 years 
				male: 9 years 
				female: 6 years (2001) 
				Bermuda
				total: 13 years 
				male: 13 years 
				female: 14 years (2005) 
				Bhutan
				total: 10 years 
				male: 11 years 
				female: 10 years (2006) 
				Botswana
				total: 12 years 
				male: 12 years 
				female: 12 years (2005) 
				Brazil
				total: 14 years 
				male: 14 years 
				female: 15 years (2005) 
				British Virgin Islands
				total: 17 years 
				male: 15 years 
				female: 19 years (2005) 
				Brunei
				total: 14 years 
				male: 14 years 
				female: 14 years (2006) 
				Bulgaria
				total: 14 years 
				male: 13 years 
				female: 14 years (2006) 
				Burkina Faso
				total: 5 years 
				male: 5 years 
				female: 4 years (2006) 
				Burma
				total: 8 years 
				male: 8 years 
				female: 8 years (2001) 
				Burundi
				total: 7 years 
				male: 8 years 
				female: 7 years (2006) 
				Cambodia
				total: 10 years 
				male: 10 years 
				female: 9 years (2006) 
				Cameroon
				total: 9 years 
				male: 10 years 
				female: 8 years (2006) 
				Canada
				total: 17 years 
				male: 17 years 
				female: 17 years (2004) 
				Cape Verde
				total: 12 years 
				male: 11 years 
				female: 12 years (2006) 
				Cayman Islands
				total: 13 years 
				male: 12 years 
				female: 13 years (2001) 
				Chad
				total: 6 years 
				male: 7 years 
				female: 4 years (2005) 
				Chile
				total: 14 years 
				male: 14 years 
				female: 14 years (2006) 
				China
				total: 11 years 
				male: 11 years 
				female: 11 years (2006) 
				Colombia
				total: 12 years 
				male: 12 years 
				female: 13 years (2006) 
				Comoros
				total: 8 years 
				male: 9 years 
				female: 7 years (2004) 
				Congo, Democratic Republic of the
				total: 9 years 
				male: 10 years 
				female: 8 years (2003) 
				Congo, Republic of the
				total: 9 years 
				male: 10 years 
				female: 8 years (2003) 
				Cook Islands
				total: 10 years 
				male: 10 years 
				female: 10 years (2005) 
				Costa Rica
				total: 12 years 
				male: 12 years 
				female: 12 years (2005) 
				Croatia
				total: 14 years 
				male: 13 years 
				female: 14 years (2006) 
				Cuba
				total: 16 years 
				male: 15 years 
				female: 17 years (2006) 
				Cyprus
				total: 14 years 
				male: 13 years 
				female: 14 years (2006) 
				Czech Republic
				total: 15 years 
				male: 15 years 
				female: 15 years (2006) 
				Denmark
				total: 17 years 
				male: 16 years 
				female: 17 years (2006) 
				Djibouti
				total: 4 years 
				male: 5 years 
				female: 4 years (2006) 
				Dominica
				total: 13 years 
				male: 13 years 
				female: 14 years (2005) 
				Dominican Republic
				total: 12 years 
				male: 12 years 
				female: 13 years (2004) 
				El Salvador
				total: 12 years 
				male: 12 years 
				female: 12 years (2006) 
				Equatorial Guinea
				total: 10 years 
				male: 10 years 
				female: 9 years (2000) 
				Eritrea
				total: 5 years 
				male: 6 years 
				female: 4 years (2004) 
				Estonia
				total: 16 years 
				male: 15 years 
				female: 17 years (2006) 
				Ethiopia
				total: 8 years 
				male: 8 years 
				female: 7 years (2007) 
				Fiji
				total: 13 years 
				male: 13 years 
				female: 13 years (2005) 
				Finland
				total: 17 years 
				male: 17 years 
				female: 18 years (2006) 
				France
				total: 16 years 
				male: 16 years 
				female: 17 years (2006) 
				Gambia, The
				total: 7 years 
				male: 7 years 
				female: 7 years (2004) 
				Gaza Strip
				total: 14 years 
				male: 13 years 
				female: 14 years (2006) 
				Georgia
				total: 12 years 
				male: 12 years 
				female: 13 years (2006) 
				Germany
				total: 16 years 
				male: 16 years 
				female: 16 years (2006) 
				Ghana
				total: 9 years 
				male: 10 years 
				female: 9 years (2007) 
				Greece
				total: 17 years 
				male: 17 years 
				female: 17 years (2006) 
				Grenada
				total: 12 years 
				male: 12 years 
				female: 12 years (2005) 
				Guatemala
				total: 10 years 
				male: 11 years 
				female: 10 years (2006) 
				Guinea
				total: 8 years 
				male: 10 years 
				female: 7 years (2006) 
				Guinea-Bissau
				total: 5 years 
				male: 7 years 
				female: 4 years (2001) 
				Guyana
				total: 13 years 
				male: 13 years 
				female: 14 years (2005) 
				Honduras
				total: 11 years 
				male: 11 years 
				female: 12 years (2004) 
				Hong Kong
				total: 14 years 
				male: 14 years 
				female: 13 years (2006) 
				Hungary
				total: 15 years 
				male: 15 years 
				female: 16 years (2006) 
				Iceland
				total: 18 years 
				male: 17 years 
				female: 19 years (2006) 
				India
				total: 10 years 
				male: 11 years 
				female: 9 years (2005) 
				Indonesia
				total: 11 years 
				male: 12 years 
				female: 11 years (2005) 
				Iran
				total: 13 years 
				male: 13 years 
				female: 13 years (2005) 
				Iraq
				total: 10 years 
				male: 11 years 
				female: 8 years (2005) 
				Ireland
				total: 18 years 
				male: 17 years 
				female: 18 years (2006) 
				Israel
				total: 15 years 
				male: 15 years 
				female: 16 years (2006) 
				Italy
				total: 16 years 
				male: 16 years 
				female: 17 years (2006) 
				Jamaica
				total: 12 years 
				male: 11 years 
				female: 12 years (2003) 
				Japan
				total: 15 years 
				male: 15 years 
				female: 15 years (2006) 
				Jordan
				total: 13 years 
				male: 13 years 
				female: 13 years (2006) 
				Kazakhstan
				total: 15 years 
				male: 15 years 
				female: 16 years (2007) 
				Kenya
				total: 10 years 
				male: 10 years 
				female: 9 years (2004) 
				Kiribati
				total: 12 years 
				male: 12 years 
				female: 13 years (2005) 
				Korea, South
				total: 17 years 
				male: 18 years 
				female: 15 years (2007) 
				Kuwait
				total: 13 years 
				male: 12 years 
				female: 13 years (2006) 
				Kyrgyzstan
				total: 12 years 
				male: 12 years 
				female: 13 years (2006) 
				Laos
				total: 9 years 
				male: 10 years 
				female: 8 years (2006) 
				Latvia
				total: 16 years 
				male: 14 years 
				female: 17 years (2006) 
				Lebanon
				total: 13 years 
				male: 13 years 
				female: 13 years (2006) 
				Lesotho
				total: 10 years 
				male: 10 years 
				female: 10 years (2006) 
				Liberia
				total: 10 years 
				male: 11 years 
				female: 8 years (2000) 
				Libya
				total: 17 years 
				male: 16 years 
				female: 17 years (2003) 
				Liechtenstein
				total: 15 years 
				male: 16 years 
				female: 13 years (2004) 
				Lithuania
				total: 16 years 
				male: 15 years 
				female: 17 years (2006) 
				Luxembourg
				total: 14 years 
				male: 13 years 
				female: 14 years (2006) 
				Macau
				total: 15 years 
				male: 16 years 
				female: 14 years (2006) 
				Macedonia
				total: 12 years 
				male: 12 years 
				female: 12 years (2005) 
				Madagascar
				total: 9 years 
				male: 10 years 
				female: 9 years (2006) 
				Malawi
				total: 9 years 
				male: 10 years 
				female: 9 years (2004) 
				Malaysia
				total: 13 years 
				male: 12 years 
				female: 13 years (2005) 
				Maldives
				total: 12 years 
				male: 12 years 
				female: 12 years (2006) 
				Mali
				total: 7 years 
				male: 8 years 
				female: 5 years (2005) 
				Malta
				total: 15 years 
				male: 15 years 
				female: 15 years (2005) 
				Marshall Islands
				total: 13 years 
				male: 13 years 
				female: 13 years (2003) 
				Mauritania
				total: 8 years 
				male: 8 years 
				female: 8 years (2006) 
				Mauritius
				total: 14 years 
				male: 14 years 
				female: 13 years (2005) 
				Mexico
				total: 13 years 
				male: 14 years 
				female: 13 years (2006) 
				Moldova
				total: 12 years 
				male: 12 years 
				female: 13 years (2006) 
				Mongolia
				total: 13 years 
				male: 12 years 
				female: 14 years (2006) 
				Montserrat
				total: 16 years 
				male: 15 years 
				female: 16 years (2006) 
				Morocco
				total: 10 years 
				male: 11 years 
				female: 9 years (2005) 
				Mozambique
				total: 8 years 
				male: 9 years 
				female: 7 years (2005) 
				Namibia
				total: 11 years 
				male: 11 years 
				female: 11 years (2006) 
				Nauru
				total: 8 years 
				male: 8 years 
				female: 9 years (2006) 
				Nepal
				total: 9 years 
				male: 10 years 
				female: 8 years (2003) 
				Netherlands
				total: 16 years 
				male: 17 years 
				female: 16 years (2006) 
				Netherlands Antilles
				total: 14 years 
				male: 14 years 
				female: 15 years (2002) 
				New Zealand
				total: 19 years 
				male: 19 years 
				female: 20 years (2006) 
				Nicaragua
				total: 11 years 
				male: 11 years 
				female: 11 years (2003) 
				Niger
				total: 4 years 
				male: 5 years 
				female: 3 years (2006) 
				Nigeria
				total: 8 years 
				male: 9 years 
				female: 7 years (2004) 
				Niue
				total: 12 years 
				male: 12 years 
				female: 12 years (2005) 
				Norway
				total: 17 years 
				male: 17 years 
				female: 18 years (2006) 
				Oman
				total: 12 years 
				male: 12 years 
				female: 11 years (2006) 
				Pakistan
				total: 7 years 
				male: 7 years 
				female: 6 years (2006) 
				Palau
				total: 15 years 
				male: 14 years 
				female: 15 years (2000) 
				Panama
				total: 13 years 
				male: 13 years 
				female: 14 years (2006) 
				Paraguay
				total: 12 years 
				male: 12 years 
				female: 12 years (2005) 
				Peru
				total: 14 years 
				male: 14 years 
				female: 14 years (2006) 
				Philippines
				total: 12 years 
				male: 11 years 
				female: 12 years (2006) 
				Poland
				total: 15 years 
				male: 15 years 
				female: 16 years (2006) 
				Portugal
				total: 15 years 
				male: 15 years 
				female: 16 years (2006) 
				Qatar
				total: 13 years 
				male: 13 years 
				female: 14 years (2006) 
				Romania
				total: 14 years 
				male: 14 years 
				female: 14 years (2006) 
				Russia
				total: 14 years 
				male: 13 years 
				female: 14 years (2006) 
				Rwanda
				total: 9 years 
				male: 8 years 
				female: 9 years (2005) 
				Saint Kitts and Nevis
				total: 12 years 
				male: 12 years 
				female: 13 years (2005) 
				Saint Lucia
				total: 14 years 
				male: 13 years 
				female: 14 years (2006) 
				Saint Vincent and the Grenadines
				total: 12 years 
				male: 12 years 
				female: 12 years (2005) 
				Samoa
				total: 12 years 
				male: 12 years 
				female: 12 years (2001) 
				Sao Tome and Principe
				total: 10 years 
				male: 10 years 
				female: 10 years (2006) 
				Seychelles
				total: 15 years 
				male: 14 years 
				female: 15 years (2007) 
				Sierra Leone
				total: 7 years 
				male: 8 years 
				female: 6 years (2001) 
				Slovakia
				total: 15 years 
				male: 14 years 
				female: 15 years (2006) 
				Slovenia
				total: 17 years 
				male: 16 years 
				female: 17 years (2006) 
				Solomon Islands
				total: 8 years 
				male: 9 years 
				female: 8 years (2005) 
				South Africa
				total: 13 years 
				male: 13 years 
				female: 13 years (2004) 
				Spain
				total: 16 years 
				male: 16 years 
				female: 17 years (2006) 
				Suriname
				total: 12 years 
				male: 11 years 
				female: 13 years (2002) 
				Swaziland
				total: 10 years 
				male: 10 years 
				female: 10 years (2005) 
				Sweden
				total: 16 years 
				male: 15 years 
				female: 17 years (2006) 
				Switzerland
				total: 15 years 
				male: 15 years 
				female: 15 years (2006) 
				Tajikistan
				total: 11 years 
				male: 12 years 
				female: 10 years (2006) 
				Thailand
				total: 14 years 
				male: 13 years 
				female: 14 years (2006) 
				Togo
				total: 9 years 
				male: 11 years 
				female: 7 years (2000) 
				Tokelau
				total: 11 years 
				male: 10 years 
				female: 11 years (2004) 
				Tonga
				total: 13 years 
				male: 13 years 
				female: 13 years (2004) 
				Trinidad and Tobago
				total: 11 years 
				male: 11 years 
				female: 11 years (2005) 
				Tunisia
				total: 14 years 
				male: 13 years 
				female: 14 years (2006) 
				Turkey
				total: 11 years 
				male: 12 years 
				female: 11 years (2006) 
				Turks and Caicos Islands
				total: 11 years 
				male: 11 years 
				female: 12 years (2005) 
				Tuvalu
				total: 11 years 
				male: 11 years 
				female: 11 years (2001) 
				Uganda
				total: 10 years 
				male: 11 years 
				female: 10 years (2004) 
				Ukraine
				total: 14 years 
				male: 14 years 
				female: 15 years (2006) 
				United Arab Emirates
				total: 11 years 
				male: 11 years 
				female: 12 years (2003) 
				United Kingdom
				total: 16 years 
				male: 16 years 
				female: 17 years (2006) 
				United States
				total: 16 years 
				male: 15 years 
				female: 16 years (2006) 
				Uruguay
				total: 15 years 
				male: 14 years 
				female: 16 years (2006) 
				Uzbekistan
				total: 11 years 
				male: 12 years 
				female: 11 years (2007) 
				Vanuatu
				total: 10 years 
				male: 11 years 
				female: 10 years (2004) 
				Venezuela
				total: 12 years 
				male: 11 years 
				female: 12 years (2003) 
				Vietnam
				total: 10 years 
				male: 11 years 
				female: 10 years (2000) 
				West Bank
				total: 14 years 
				male: 13 years 
				female: 14 years (2006) 
				Yemen
				total: 9 years 
				male: 11 years 
				female: 7 years (2005) 
				Zambia
				total: 7 years 
				male: 7 years 
				female: 7 years (2000) 
				Zimbabwe
				total: 9 years 
				male: 9 years 
				female: 9 years (2003)  		
				This page was last updated on 19 March 2009
&nbsp; 
CIA - The World Factbook -- Field Listing - Unemployment rate
&nbsp; 
				    &nbsp; 
                    Field Listing - Unemployment rate
         Home 
          &nbsp;Reference Maps 
          &nbsp;Appendixes 
          		&nbsp;Rank Order List
			Country
			Unemployment rate (%) 
				Afghanistan
			40% (2008 est.) 
				Albania
			12.5% official rate, but may exceed 30% due to preponderance of near-subsistence farming (2008 est.) 
				Algeria
			12.9% (2008 est.) 
				American Samoa
				Andorra
				Angola
			extensive unemployment and underemployment affecting more than half the population (2001 est.) 
				Anguilla
				Antigua and Barbuda
			11% (2001 est.) 
				Argentina
			7.8% (September 2008) 
				Armenia
			7.1% (2007 est.) 
				Aruba
			6.9% (2005 est.) 
				Australia
			4.5% (2008 est.) 
				Austria
			3.7% (2008 est.) 
				Azerbaijan
			0.8% official rate (2008 est.) 
				Bahamas, The
			7.6% (2006 est.) 
				Bahrain
			15% (2005 est.) 
				Bangladesh
			2.5% (includes underemployment) (2008 est.) 
				Barbados
			10.7% (2003 est.) 
				Belarus
			1.6% officially registered unemployed; large number of underemployed workers (2005) 
				Belgium
				Belize
				Benin
			NA% 
				Bermuda
			2.1% (2004 est.) 
				Bhutan
				Bolivia
			7.5% in urban areas; widespread underemployment (2008 est.) 
				Bosnia and Herzegovina
			29% official rate; grey economy may reduce actual unemployment to 25-30% (2007 est.) 
				Botswana
			7.5% (2007 est.) 
				Brazil
			8% (2008 est.) 
				British Virgin Islands
				Brunei
				Bulgaria
				Burkina Faso
				Burma
			9.4% (2008 est.) 
				Burundi
			NA% 
				Cambodia
			3.5% (2007 est.) 
				Cameroon
			30% (2001 est.) 
				Canada
			6.1% (2008 est.) 
				Cape Verde
			21% (2000 est.) 
				Cayman Islands
				Central African Republic
			8% (23% for Bangui) (2001 est.) 
				Chad
			NA% 
				Chile
			7.5% (August-October 2008) 
				China
			4% officially in urban areas, but including migrants may be as high as 9%; substantial unemployment and underemployment in rural areas (2008 est.) 
				Cocos (Keeling) Islands
			60% (2000 est.) 
				Colombia
			11.8% (2008 est.) 
				Comoros
			20% (1996 est.) 
				Congo, Democratic Republic of the
			NA% 
				Congo, Republic of the
			NA% 
				Cook Islands
				Costa Rica
			5.6% (2008 est.) 
				Cote d'Ivoire
			unemployment may have climbed to 40-50% as a result of the civil war 
				Croatia
			14.8% (2008 est.) 
				Cuba
			1.8% (2008 est.) 
				Cyprus
			3.8% (2008 est.) 
				Czech Republic
				Denmark
			2% (2008 est.) 
				Djibouti
			59% in urban areas, 83% in rural areas (2007 est.) 
				Dominica
			23% (2000 est.) 
				Dominican Republic
			15.4% (2008 est.) 
				Ecuador
			8.7% (2008 est.) 
				Egypt
			8.7% (2008 est.) 
				El Salvador
			6.3% official rate; but the economy has much underemployment (2008 est.) 
				Equatorial Guinea
			30% (1998 est.) 
				Eritrea
			NA% 
				Estonia
			6.2% (30 September 2008 est.) 
				Ethiopia
			NA% 
				European Union
			7.4% (2008 est.) 
				Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas)
			full employment; labor shortage (2001) 
				Faroe Islands
				Fiji
				Finland
			6.4% (2008 est.) 
				France
			7.4% (2008 est.) 
				French Polynesia
				Gabon
			21% (2006 est.) 
				Gambia, The
			NA% 
				Gaza Strip
			41.3% (June 2008) 
				Georgia
			13.6% (2006 est.) 
				Germany
				note: this is the International Labor Organization's estimated rate for international comparisons; Germany's Federal Employment Office estimated a seasonally adjusted rate of 10.8% (2008 est.) 
				Ghana
			11% (2000 est.) 
				Gibraltar
			3% (2005 est.) 
				Greece
			8% (2008 est.) 
				Greenland
			9.3% (2005 est.) 
				Grenada
				Guam
			11.4% (2002 est.) 
				Guatemala
			3.2% (2005 est.) 
				Guernsey
			0.9% (March 2006 est.) 
				Guinea
			NA% 
				Guinea-Bissau
			NA% 
				Guyana
				Haiti
			widespread unemployment and underemployment; more than two-thirds of the labor force do not have formal jobs (2002 est.) 
				Honduras
			27.8% (2007 est.) 
				Hong Kong
			4.1% (December 2008 est.) 
				Hungary
			8% (2008 est.) 
				Iceland
				note: this figure climbed to 9.4% as of February 2009 (2008 est.) 
				India
			6.8% (2008 est.) 
				Indonesia
			8.2% (2008 est.) 
				Iran
			12.5% according to the Iranian government (2008 est.) 
				Iraq
			18.2% to 30% (2008 est.) 
				Ireland
			6.2% (2008 est.) 
				Isle of Man
			1.5% (December 2006 est.) 
				Israel
			6.1% (2008 est.) 
				Italy
			6.8% (2008 est.) 
				Jamaica
			10.1% (2008 est.) 
				Japan
			4.2% (2008 est.) 
				Jersey
			2.2% (2006 est.) 
				Jordan
			12.9% official rate; unofficial rate is approximately 30% (2008 est.) 
				Kazakhstan
			6.9% (2008 est.) 
				Kenya
			40% (2001 est.) 
				Kiribati
			2% official rate; underemployment 70% (1992 est.) 
				Korea, North
			NA% 
				Korea, South
			3.2% (2008 est.) 
				Kosovo
			40% (2007 est.) 
				Kuwait
			2.2% (2004 est.) 
				Kyrgyzstan
			18% (2004 est.) 
				Laos
			2.4% (2005 est.) 
				Latvia
			5.5% (2008 est.) 
				Lebanon
			9.2% (2007 est.) 
				Lesotho
				Liberia
			85% (2003 est.) 
				Libya
			30% (2004 est.) 
				Liechtenstein
			1.5% (31 December 2007) 
				Lithuania
				note: based on survey data, official registered unemployment of 5.7% (2008 est.) 
				Luxembourg
			4.7% (2008 est.) 
				Macau
				Macedonia
			34.5% (2008 est.) 
				Malawi
			NA% 
				Malaysia
			3.7% (2008 est.) 
				Maldives
			NEGL% (2003 est.) 
				Mali
			30% (2004 est.) 
				Malta
				Marshall Islands
			36% (2006 est.) 
				Mauritania
			30% (2008 est.) 
				Mauritius
			7.6% (2008 est.) 
				Mayotte
				Mexico
			4.1% plus underemployment of perhaps 25% (October 2008) 
				Micronesia, Federated States of
			22% (2000 est.) 
				Moldova
			2.1%; note - roughly 25% of working age Moldovans are employed abroad (2007 est.) 
				Monaco
				Mongolia
				Montenegro
			14.7% (2007 est.) 
				Montserrat
			6% (1998 est.) 
				Morocco
			2.1% (2008 est.) 
				Mozambique
			21% (1997 est.) 
				Namibia
			5% (2008 est.) 
				Nauru
			90% (2004 est.) 
				Nepal
			42% (2004 est.) 
				Netherlands
			4.5% (2008 est.) 
				Netherlands Antilles
			17% (2002 est.) 
				New Caledonia
				New Zealand
			4% (2008 est.) 
				Nicaragua
			3.9% plus underemployment of 46.5% (2008 est.) 
				Niger
			NA% 
				Nigeria
			NA 
				Niue
				Northern Mariana Islands
			8% (2005 est.) 
				Norway
			2.6% (2008 est.) 
				Oman
			15% (2004 est.) 
				Pakistan
			7.4% plus substantial underemployment (2008 est.) 
				Palau
			4.2% (2005 est.) 
				Panama
			6.3% (2008 est.) 
				Papua New Guinea
			1.9% up to 80% in urban areas (2004) 
				Paraguay
			5.4% (2008 est.) 
				Peru
			8.4% in metropolitan Lima; widespread underemployment (2008 est.) 
				Philippines
			7.4% (2008 est.) 
				Poland
			9.7% (2008 est.) 
				Portugal
			7.6% (2008 est.) 
				Puerto Rico
				Qatar
			0.6% (2008 est.) 
				Romania
			3.6% (2008 est.) 
				Russia
			6.2% (2008 est.) 
				Rwanda
			NA% 
				Saint Helena
			14% (1998 est.) 
				Saint Kitts and Nevis
				Saint Lucia
			20% (2003 est.) 
				Saint Pierre and Miquelon
				Saint Vincent and the Grenadines
			15% (2001 est.) 
				Samoa
			NA% 
				San Marino
				Sao Tome and Principe
			NA% 
				Saudi Arabia
			8.8% among Saudi males only (local bank estimate; some estimates range as high as 25%) (2008 est.) 
				Senegal
			48% (2007 est.) 
				Serbia
			18.8% (2007 est.) 
				Seychelles
			2% (2006 est.) 
				Sierra Leone
			NA% 
				Singapore
			2.3% (2008 est.) 
				Slovakia
				Slovenia
			6.7% (2008 est.) 
				Solomon Islands
			NA% 
				Somalia
			NA% 
				South Africa
			21.7% (2008 est.) 
				Spain
			13.9% (2008 est.) 
				Sri Lanka
			5.2% (30 September 2008 est.) 
				Sudan
			18.7% (2002 est.) 
				Suriname
				Swaziland
			40% (2006 est.) 
				Sweden
			6.4% (2008 est.) 
				Switzerland
			3% (December 2008) 
				Syria
			9% (2008 est.) 
				Taiwan
			4.1% (2008 est.) 
				Tajikistan
			2.4% official rate; actual unemployment is higher (2007 est.) 
				Tanzania
			NA% 
				Thailand
			1.2% (2008 est.) 
				Timor-Leste
			20% in rural areas, rising to more than 40% among urban youth (2006 est.) 
				Togo
			NA% 
				Tokelau
			NA% 
				Tonga
			13% (FY03/04 est.) 
				Trinidad and Tobago
			5.3% (2008 est.) 
				Tunisia
			14% (2008 est.) 
				Turkey
			7.9% plus underemployment of 4% (2008 est.) 
				Turkmenistan
			60% (2004 est.) 
				Turks and Caicos Islands
			10% (1997 est.) 
				Tuvalu
			NA% 
				Uganda
			NA% 
				Ukraine
			3% officially registered; large number of unregistered or underemployed workers (2008 est.) 
				United Arab Emirates
				United Kingdom
			5.5% (2008 est.) 
				United States
			7.2% (December 2008 est.) 
				Uruguay
			7.6% (2008 est.) 
				Uzbekistan
			0.9% officially by the Ministry of Labor, plus another 20% underemployed (2008 est.) 
				Vanuatu
				Venezuela
			8.5% (2008 est.) 
				Vietnam
			4.9% (2008 est.) 
				Virgin Islands
				Wallis and Futuna
				West Bank
			16.3% (June 2008) 
				Western Sahara
			NA% 
				World
			30% combined unemployment and underemployment in many non-industrialized countries; developed countries typically 4%-12% unemployment (2007 est.) 
				Yemen
			35% (2003 est.) 
				Zambia
			50% (2000 est.) 
				Zimbabwe
			80% (2005 est.)  		
				This page was last updated on 19 March 2009
&nbsp; 
CIA - The World Factbook -- Field Listing - Median age
&nbsp; 
				    &nbsp; 
                    Field Listing - Median age
         Home 
          &nbsp;Reference Maps 
          &nbsp;Appendixes 
			Country
			Median age (years) 
				Afghanistan
				total: 17.6 years 
				male: 17.6 years 
				female: 17.6 years (2008 est.) 
				Albania
				total: 29.9 years 
				male: 29.3 years 
				female: 30.6 years (2008 est.) 
				Algeria
				total: 26.6 years 
				male: 26.3 years 
				female: 26.8 years (2008 est.) 
				American Samoa
				total: 23.1 years 
				male: 23 years 
				female: 23.3 years (2008 est.) 
				Andorra
				total: 39.4 years 
				male: 39.7 years 
				female: 39.1 years (2008 est.) 
				Angola
				total: 18 years 
				male: 18 years 
				female: 18 years (2008 est.) 
				Anguilla
				total: 32.6 years 
				male: 31.5 years 
				female: 33.8 years (2008 est.) 
				Antigua and Barbuda
				total: 29.7 years 
				male: 28.2 years 
				female: 31.1 years (2008 est.) 
				Argentina
				total: 30 years 
				male: 29 years 
				female: 31 years (2008 est.) 
				Armenia
				total: 31.5 years 
				male: 28.8 years 
				female: 34.4 years (2008 est.) 
				Aruba
				total: 37.8 years 
				male: 36 years 
				female: 39.5 years (2008 est.) 
				Australia
				total: 37.3 years 
				male: 36.6 years 
				female: 38.1 years (2008 est.) 
				Austria
				total: 42.2 years 
				male: 41.1 years 
				female: 43.2 years (2008 est.) 
				Azerbaijan
				total: 28.2 years 
				male: 26.6 years 
				female: 30 years (2008 est.) 
				Bahamas, The
				total: 28.7 years 
				male: 27.9 years 
				female: 29.5 years (2008 est.) 
				Bahrain
				total: 30.1 years 
				male: 33.2 years 
				female: 26.7 years (2008 est.) 
				Bangladesh
				total: 23.3 years 
				male: 22.9 years 
				female: 23.5 years (2008 est.) 
				Barbados
				total: 35.8 years 
				male: 34.7 years 
				female: 36.9 years (2008 est.) 
				Belarus
				total: 38.6 years 
				male: 35.6 years 
				female: 41.6 years (2008 est.) 
				Belgium
				total: 41.7 years 
				male: 40.4 years 
				female: 43 years (2008 est.) 
				Belize
				total: 20.4 years 
				male: 20.3 years 
				female: 20.6 years (2008 est.) 
				Benin
				total: 17.2 years 
				male: 16.8 years 
				female: 17.7 years (2008 est.) 
				Bermuda
				total: 41.3 years 
				male: 39.9 years 
				female: 42.7 years (2008 est.) 
				Bhutan
				total: 23.9 years 
				male: 24.5 years 
				female: 23.3 years (2008 est.) 
				Bolivia
				total: 21.9 years 
				male: 21.3 years 
				female: 22.6 years (2008 est.) 
				Bosnia and Herzegovina
				total: 39.8 years 
				male: 38.7 years 
				female: 41 years (2008 est.) 
				Botswana
				total: 21.7 years 
				male: 21.5 years 
				female: 21.9 years (2008 est.) 
				Brazil
				total: 28.6 years 
				male: 27.8 years 
				female: 29.3 years (2008 est.) 
				British Virgin Islands
				total: 32.3 years 
				male: 32.4 years 
				female: 32.2 years (2008 est.) 
				Brunei
				total: 27.8 years 
				male: 27.7 years 
				female: 27.8 years (2008 est.) 
				Bulgaria
				total: 41.4 years 
				male: 39.2 years 
				female: 43.6 years (2008 est.) 
				Burkina Faso
				total: 16.8 years 
				male: 16.6 years 
				female: 17 years (2008 est.) 
				Burma
				total: 28.2 years 
				male: 27.7 years 
				female: 28.8 years (2008 est.) 
				Burundi
				total: 16.7 years 
				male: 16.5 years 
				female: 17 years (2008 est.) 
				Cambodia
				total: 22.1 years 
				male: 21.4 years 
				female: 22.8 years (2008 est.) 
				Cameroon
				total: 19.2 years 
				male: 19 years 
				female: 19.3 years (2008 est.) 
				Canada
				total: 40.4 years 
				male: 39.3 years 
				female: 41.5 years (2008 est.) 
				Cape Verde
				total: 21.1 years 
				male: 20.4 years 
				female: 21.9 years (2008 est.) 
				Cayman Islands
				total: 38.1 years 
				male: 37.7 years 
				female: 38.6 years (2008 est.) 
				Central African Republic
				total: 18.8 years 
				male: 18.5 years 
				female: 19.1 years (2008 est.) 
				Chad
				total: 16.5 years 
				male: 15.3 years 
				female: 17.7 years (2008 est.) 
				Chile
				total: 31.4 years 
				male: 30.4 years 
				female: 32.4 years (2008 est.) 
				China
				total: 34.1 years 
				male: 33.5 years 
				female: 34.7 years (2008 est.) 
				Colombia
				total: 27.1 years 
				male: 26.1 years 
				female: 28 years (2008 est.) 
				Comoros
				total: 18.8 years 
				male: 18.5 years 
				female: 19.1 years (2008 est.) 
				Congo, Democratic Republic of the
				total: 16.4 years 
				male: 16.2 years 
				female: 16.6 years (2008 est.) 
				Congo, Republic of the
				total: 16.8 years 
				male: 16.6 years 
				female: 17.1 years (2008 est.) 
				Cook Islands
				total: 30.5 years 
				male: 29.8 years 
				female: 31.1 years (2001 census) 
				Costa Rica
				total: 27.5 years 
				male: 27.1 years 
				female: 28 years (2008 est.) 
				Cote d'Ivoire
				total: 19.2 years 
				male: 19.4 years 
				female: 19.1 years (2008 est.) 
				Croatia
				total: 41 years 
				male: 39.1 years 
				female: 42.8 years (2008 est.) 
				Cuba
				total: 37.3 years 
				male: 36.6 years 
				female: 38 years (2008 est.) 
				Cyprus
				total: 35.5 years 
				male: 34.5 years 
				female: 36.6 years (2008 est.) 
				Czech Republic
				total: 40.1 years 
				male: 38.6 years 
				female: 41.9 years (2008 est.) 
				Denmark
				total: 40.5 years 
				male: 39.6 years 
				female: 41.3 years (2008 est.) 
				Djibouti
				total: 18.1 years 
				male: 18.5 years 
				female: 17.8 years (2008 est.) 
				Dominica
				total: 29.8 years 
				male: 29.4 years 
				female: 30.2 years (2008 est.) 
				Dominican Republic
				total: 24.9 years 
				male: 24.8 years 
				female: 25.1 years (2008 est.) 
				Ecuador
				total: 25 years 
				male: 24.4 years 
				female: 25.6 years (2008 est.) 
				Egypt
				total: 24.8 years 
				male: 24.4 years 
				female: 25.2 years (2008 est.) 
				El Salvador
				total: 22.5 years 
				male: 21.3 years 
				female: 23.6 years (2008 est.) 
				Equatorial Guinea
				total: 18.9 years 
				male: 18.3 years 
				female: 19.6 years (2008 est.) 
				Eritrea
				total: 18.4 years 
				male: 18 years 
				female: 18.8 years (2008 est.) 
				Estonia
				total: 39.9 years 
				male: 36.5 years 
				female: 43.5 years (2008 est.) 
				Ethiopia
				total: 16.9 years 
				male: 16.6 years 
				female: 17.2 years (2008 est.) 
				European Union
			note - see individual country entries of member states 
				Faroe Islands
				total: 36.9 years 
				male: 36.3 years 
				female: 37.7 years (2008 est.) 
				Fiji
				total: 25.5 years 
				male: 25 years 
				female: 26 years (2008 est.) 
				Finland
				total: 42.1 years 
				male: 40.5 years 
				female: 43.7 years (2008 est.) 
				France
				total: 39.4 years 
				male: 38 years 
				female: 40.9 years (2008 est.) 
				French Polynesia
				total: 29.1 years 
				male: 29.4 years 
				female: 28.8 years (2008 est.) 
				Gabon
				total: 18.6 years 
				male: 18.4 years 
				female: 18.9 years (2008 est.) 
				Gambia, The
				total: 17.9 years 
				male: 17.8 years 
				female: 18.1 years (2008 est.) 
				Gaza Strip
				total: 17.4 years 
				male: 17.2 years 
				female: 17.5 years (2008 est.) 
				Georgia
				total: 38.6 years 
				male: 36.1 years 
				female: 41 years (2008 est.) 
				Germany
				total: 43.8 years 
				male: 42.6 years 
				female: 45.2 years (2008 est.) 
				Ghana
				total: 20.7 years 
				male: 20.5 years 
				female: 21 years (2008 est.) 
				Gibraltar
				total: 40.5 years 
				male: 39.9 years 
				female: 41 years (2008 est.) 
				Greece
				total: 41.8 years 
				male: 40.7 years 
				female: 42.9 years (2008 est.) 
				Greenland
				total: 33.5 years 
				male: 34.9 years 
				female: 31.9 years (2008 est.) 
				Grenada
				total: 22.8 years 
				male: 23.3 years 
				female: 22.3 years (2008 est.) 
				Guam
				total: 29.1 years 
				male: 28.8 years 
				female: 29.4 years (2008 est.) 
				Guatemala
				total: 19.4 years 
				male: 18.9 years 
				female: 20 years (2008 est.) 
				Guernsey
				total: 42.5 years 
				male: 41.4 years 
				female: 43.4 years (2008 est.) 
				Guinea
				total: 18.5 years 
				male: 18.2 years 
				female: 18.7 years (2008 est.) 
				Guinea-Bissau
				total: 19.3 years 
				male: 18.7 years 
				female: 19.8 years (2008 est.) 
				Guyana
				total: 28.7 years 
				male: 28.2 years 
				female: 29.2 years (2008 est.) 
				Haiti
				total: 20.2 years 
				male: 19.8 years 
				female: 20.7 years (2008 est.) 
				Honduras
				total: 20.3 years 
				male: 20 years 
				female: 20.7 years (2008 est.) 
				Hong Kong
				total: 42.3 years 
				male: 41.9 years 
				female: 42.6 years (2008 est.) 
				Hungary
				total: 39.4 years 
				male: 37.1 years 
				female: 42 years (2008 est.) 
				Iceland
				total: 35.1 years 
				male: 34.6 years 
				female: 35.6 years (2008 est.) 
				India
				total: 25.3 years 
				male: 24.9 years 
				female: 25.8 years (2008 est.) 
				Indonesia
				total: 27.6 years 
				male: 27.1 years 
				female: 28.1 years (2008 est.) 
				Iran
				total: 27 years 
				male: 26.8 years 
				female: 27.2 years (2008 est.) 
				Iraq
				total: 20.4 years 
				male: 20.3 years 
				female: 20.5 years (2008 est.) 
				Ireland
				total: 35 years 
				male: 34.2 years 
				female: 35.7 years (2008 est.) 
				Isle of Man
				total: 40.2 years 
				male: 39 years 
				female: 41.4 years (2008 est.) 
				Israel
				total: 29.1 years 
				male: 28.4 years 
				female: 29.8 years (2008 est.) 
				Italy
				total: 43.3 years 
				male: 41.8 years 
				female: 44.8 years (2008 est.) 
				Jamaica
				total: 23.7 years 
				male: 23.1 years 
				female: 24.2 years (2008 est.) 
				Japan
				total: 44.2 years 
				male: 42.4 years 
				female: 46.1 years (2008 est.) 
				Jersey
				total: 42.9 years 
				male: 42.1 years 
				female: 43.6 years (2008 est.) 
				Jordan
				total: 24.3 years 
				male: 25 years 
				female: 23.6 years (2008 est.) 
				Kazakhstan
				total: 29.6 years 
				male: 28.1 years 
				female: 31.3 years (2008 est.) 
				Kenya
				total: 18.7 years 
				male: 18.6 years 
				female: 18.8 years (2008 est.) 
				Kiribati
				total: 20.8 years 
				male: 20.3 years 
				female: 21.3 years (2008 est.) 
				Korea, North
				total: 33.5 years 
				male: 32.1 years 
				female: 34.9 years (2008 est.) 
				Korea, South
				total: 37.3 years 
				male: 36 years 
				female: 38.5 years (2008 est.) 
				Kosovo
				total: 25.9 years 
				male: 25.4 years 
				female: 26.4 years 
				Kuwait
				total: 26.2 years 
				male: 28.1 years 
				female: 22.7 years (2008 est.) 
				Kyrgyzstan
				total: 24.4 years 
				male: 23.6 years 
				female: 25.3 years (2008 est.) 
				Laos
				total: 19.3 years 
				male: 19 years 
				female: 19.6 years (2008 est.) 
				Latvia
				total: 40.1 years 
				male: 37.1 years 
				female: 43.3 years (2008 est.) 
				Lebanon
				total: 29.3 years 
				male: 28 years 
				female: 30.5 years (2008 est.) 
				Lesotho
				total: 21.4 years 
				male: 20.9 years 
				female: 22 years (2008 est.) 
				Liberia
				total: 18 years 
				male: 17.9 years 
				female: 18.2 years (2008 est.) 
				Libya
				total: 23.9 years 
				male: 24 years 
				female: 23.8 years (2008 est.) 
				Liechtenstein
				total: 41 years 
				male: 40.4 years 
				female: 41.5 years (2008 est.) 
				Lithuania
				total: 39.3 years 
				male: 36.8 years 
				female: 41.9 years (2008 est.) 
				Luxembourg
				total: 39.2 years 
				male: 38.2 years 
				female: 40.2 years (2008 est.) 
				Macau
				total: 35.2 years 
				male: 35.9 years 
				female: 34.6 years (2008 est.) 
				Macedonia
				total: 35.1 years 
				male: 34.1 years 
				female: 36.2 years (2008 est.) 
				Madagascar
				total: 18 years 
				male: 17.8 years 
				female: 18.2 years (2008 est.) 
				Malawi
				total: 16.8 years 
				male: 16.8 years 
				female: 16.9 years (2008 est.) 
				Malaysia
				total: 24.9 years 
				male: 24.3 years 
				female: 25.6 years (2008 est.) 
				Maldives
				total: 25.7 years 
				male: 26.5 years 
				female: 24.3 years (2008 est.) 
				Mali
				total: 15.8 years 
				male: 15.5 years 
				female: 16.2 years (2008 est.) 
				Malta
				total: 39.5 years 
				male: 38.1 years 
				female: 40.9 years (2008 est.) 
				Marshall Islands
				total: 21.2 years 
				male: 21.3 years 
				female: 21.2 years (2008 est.) 
				Mauritania
				total: 19.2 years 
				male: 18.3 years 
				female: 20 years (2008 est.) 
				Mauritius
				total: 31.9 years 
				male: 31 years 
				female: 32.7 years (2008 est.) 
				Mayotte
				total: 17.2 years 
				male: 18.1 years 
				female: 16.4 years (2008 est.) 
				Mexico
				total: 26.3 years 
				male: 25.3 years 
				female: 27.3 years (2008 est.) 
				Micronesia, Federated States of
				total: 22 years 
				male: 21.5 years 
				female: 22.5 years (2008 est.) 
				Moldova
				total: 34.6 years 
				male: 32.7 years 
				female: 36.7 years (2008 est.) 
				Monaco
				total: 45.7 years 
				male: 43.6 years 
				female: 47.7 years (2008 est.) 
				Mongolia
				total: 25.3 years 
				male: 24.9 years 
				female: 25.7 years (2008 est.) 
				Montenegro
				total: 36.7 years 
				male: 35.2 years 
				female: 38.4 years 
				Montserrat
				total: 28.5 years 
				male: 28.2 years 
				female: 28.7 years (2008 est.) 
				Morocco
				total: 25 years 
				male: 24.5 years 
				female: 25.6 years (2008 est.) 
				Mozambique
				total: 17.4 years 
				male: 17 years 
				female: 17.8 years (2008 est.) 
				Namibia
				total: 21 years 
				male: 20.9 years 
				female: 21.1 years (2008 est.) 
				Nauru
				total: 21.6 years 
				male: 21 years 
				female: 22.2 years (2008 est.) 
				Nepal
				total: 20.8 years 
				male: 19.8 years 
				female: 21.7 years (2008 est.) 
				Netherlands
				total: 40.4 years 
				male: 39.6 years 
				female: 41.2 years (2008 est.) 
				Netherlands Antilles
				total: 33.7 years 
				male: 31.9 years 
				female: 35.5 years (2008 est.) 
				New Caledonia
				total: 28.7 years 
				male: 28.2 years 
				female: 29.2 years (2008 est.) 
				New Zealand
				total: 36.6 years 
				male: 35.8 years 
				female: 37.4 years (2008 est.) 
				Nicaragua
				total: 22.1 years 
				male: 21.7 years 
				female: 22.5 years (2008 est.) 
				Niger
				total: 15.2 years 
				male: 14.9 years 
				female: 15.4 years (2008 est.) 
				Nigeria
				total: 19 years 
				male: 18.9 years 
				female: 19.1 years (2008 est.) 
				Northern Mariana Islands
				total: 30.1 years 
				male: 32.1 years 
				female: 29.2 years (2008 est.) 
				Norway
				total: 39.4 years 
				male: 38.5 years 
				female: 40.2 years (2008 est.) 
				Oman
				total: 18.8 years 
				male: 21.1 years 
				female: 16.7 years (2008 est.) 
				Pakistan
				total: 20.8 years 
				male: 20.6 years 
				female: 21 years (2008 est.) 
				Palau
				total: 32.2 years 
				male: 32 years 
				female: 32.7 years (2008 est.) 
				Panama
				total: 27 years 
				male: 26.6 years 
				female: 27.3 years (2008 est.) 
				Papua New Guinea
				total: 21.7 years 
				male: 21.8 years 
				female: 21.6 years (2008 est.) 
				Paraguay
				total: 21.9 years 
				male: 21.6 years 
				female: 22.2 years (2008 est.) 
				Peru
				total: 26.1 years 
				male: 25.8 years 
				female: 26.4 years (2008 est.) 
				Philippines
				total: 22.5 years 
				male: 22 years 
				female: 23 years (2008 est.) 
				Poland
				total: 37.9 years 
				male: 36.1 years 
				female: 39.7 years (2008 est.) 
				Portugal
				total: 39.4 years 
				male: 37.3 years 
				female: 41.6 years (2008 est.) 
				Puerto Rico
				total: 36.2 years 
				male: 34.5 years 
				female: 37.9 years (2008 est.) 
				Qatar
				total: 30.8 years 
				male: 32.8 years 
				female: 25.4 years (2008 est.) 
				Romania
				total: 37.7 years 
				male: 36.3 years 
				female: 39.2 years (2008 est.) 
				Russia
				total: 38.4 years 
				male: 35.2 years 
				female: 41.6 years (2008 est.) 
				Rwanda
				total: 18.7 years 
				male: 18.5 years 
				female: 18.9 years (2008 est.) 
				Saint Barthelemy
				total: 39.1 years 
				male: 39.3 years 
				female: 38.9 years 
				Saint Helena
				total: 37.6 years 
				male: 37.7 years 
				female: 37.5 years (2008 est.) 
				Saint Kitts and Nevis
				total: 28.6 years 
				male: 27.9 years 
				female: 29.3 years (2008 est.) 
				Saint Lucia
				total: 29.8 years 
				male: 28.7 years 
				female: 30.8 years (2008 est.) 
				Saint Martin
				total: 30.5 years 
				male: 29.5 years 
				female: 31.3 years 
				Saint Pierre and Miquelon
				total: 35.2 years 
				male: 34.6 years 
				female: 35.7 years (2008 est.) 
				Saint Vincent and the Grenadines
				total: 28.9 years 
				male: 29 years 
				female: 28.9 years (2008 est.) 
				Samoa
				total: 20.8 years 
				male: 21 years 
				female: 20.5 years (2008 est.) 
				San Marino
				total: 41.5 years 
				male: 41.1 years 
				female: 41.9 years (2008 est.) 
				Sao Tome and Principe
				total: 16.4 years 
				male: 15.9 years 
				female: 17 years (2008 est.) 
				Saudi Arabia
				total: 21.6 years 
				male: 22.9 years 
				female: 19.9 years (2008 est.) 
				Senegal
				total: 18.6 years 
				male: 18.4 years 
				female: 18.8 years (2008 est.) 
				Serbia
				total: 41 years 
				male: 39.3 years 
				female: 42.7 years (2008 est.) 
				Seychelles
				total: 31.4 years 
				male: 30.9 years 
				female: 32 years (2008 est.) 
				Sierra Leone
				total: 17.5 years 
				male: 17.2 years 
				female: 17.8 years (2008 est.) 
				Singapore
				total: 39 years 
				male: 38.5 years 
				female: 39.4 years (2008 est.) 
				Slovakia
				total: 36.9 years 
				male: 35.2 years 
				female: 38.6 years (2008 est.) 
				Slovenia
				total: 41.7 years 
				male: 40.1 years 
				female: 43.3 years (2008 est.) 
				Solomon Islands
				total: 19.7 years 
				male: 19.5 years 
				female: 19.8 years (2008 est.) 
				Somalia
				total: 17.5 years 
				male: 17.4 years 
				female: 17.6 years (2008 est.) 
				South Africa
				total: 24.4 years 
				male: 24.1 years 
				female: 24.8 years (2008 est.) 
				Spain
				total: 41.1 years 
				male: 39.7 years 
				female: 42.5 years (2008 est.) 
				Sri Lanka
				total: 30.9 years 
				male: 29.9 years 
				female: 31.8 years (2008 est.) 
				Sudan
				total: 19.1 years 
				male: 18.9 years 
				female: 19.2 years (2008 est.) 
				Suriname
				total: 27.9 years 
				male: 27.5 years 
				female: 28.3 years (2008 est.) 
				Swaziland
				total: 18.8 years 
				male: 18.2 years 
				female: 19.5 years (2008 est.) 
				Sweden
				total: 41.5 years 
				male: 40.4 years 
				female: 42.6 years (2008 est.) 
				Switzerland
				total: 41 years 
				male: 40 years 
				female: 42 years (2008 est.) 
				Syria
				total: 21.7 years 
				male: 21.6 years 
				female: 21.9 years (2008 est.) 
				Taiwan
				total: 36.5 years 
				male: 35.9 years 
				female: 37.1 years (2008 est.) 
				Tajikistan
				total: 21.9 years 
				male: 21.5 years 
				female: 22.4 years (2008 est.) 
				Tanzania
				total: 18 years 
				male: 17.8 years 
				female: 18.3 years (2008 est.) 
				Thailand
				total: 33.3 years 
				male: 32.4 years 
				female: 34.2 years (2008 est.) 
				Timor-Leste
				total: 21.8 years 
				male: 21.8 years 
				female: 21.8 years (2008 est.) 
				Togo
				total: 18.7 years 
				male: 18.3 years 
				female: 19.2 years (2008 est.) 
				Tonga
				total: 22.3 years 
				male: 21.8 years 
				female: 22.8 years (2008 est.) 
				Trinidad and Tobago
				total: 32.1 years 
				male: 31.6 years 
				female: 32.7 years (2008 est.) 
				Tunisia
				total: 29.2 years 
				male: 28.7 years 
				female: 29.8 years (2008 est.) 
				Turkey
				total: 27.7 years 
				male: 27.4 years 
				female: 28.1 years (2008 est.) 
				Turkmenistan
				total: 24.4 years 
				male: 24.1 years 
				female: 24.8 years (2008 est.) 
				Turks and Caicos Islands
				total: 27.9 years 
				male: 28.7 years 
				female: 27.2 years (2008 est.) 
				Tuvalu
				total: 25.4 years 
				male: 24.4 years 
				female: 26.6 years (2008 est.) 
				Uganda
				total: 15 years 
				male: 14.9 years 
				female: 15.1 years (2008 est.) 
				Ukraine
				total: 39.5 years 
				male: 36.3 years 
				female: 42.7 years (2008 est.) 
				United Arab Emirates
				total: 30.1 years 
				male: 32 years 
				female: 24.7 years (2008 est.) 
				United Kingdom
				total: 40.2 years 
				male: 39.1 years 
				female: 41.3 years (2008 est.) 
				United States
				total: 36.7 years 
				male: 35.4 years 
				female: 38 years (2008 est.) 
				Uruguay
				total: 33.4 years 
				male: 32 years 
				female: 34.8 years (2008 est.) 
				Uzbekistan
				total: 24.7 years 
				male: 24.2 years 
				female: 25.2 years (2008 est.) 
				Vanuatu
				total: 24.2 years 
				male: 24.2 years 
				female: 24.2 years (2008 est.) 
				Venezuela
				total: 25.5 years 
				male: 24.8 years 
				female: 26.2 years (2008 est.) 
				Vietnam
				total: 27.4 years 
				male: 26.4 years 
				female: 28.5 years (2008 est.) 
				Virgin Islands
				total: 39.1 years 
				male: 38.6 years 
				female: 39.6 years (2008 est.) 
				Wallis and Futuna
				total: 27.2 years 
				male: 26.1 years 
				female: 28.5 years 
				West Bank
				total: 20.5 years 
				male: 20.4 years 
				female: 20.8 years (2008 est.) 
				Western Sahara
				total: 17.3 years 
				male: 16.8 years 
				female: 17.8 years 
				World
				total: 28.4 years 
				male: 27.7 years 
				female: 29 years (2008 est.) 
				Yemen
				total: 16.8 years 
				male: 16.7 years 
				female: 16.8 years (2008 est.) 
				Zambia
				total: 17 years 
				male: 16.9 years 
				female: 17.2 years (2008 est.) 
				Zimbabwe
				total: 17.6 years 
				male: 16.3 years 
				female: 18.8 years (2008 est.)  		
				This page was last updated on 19 March 2009
&nbsp; 
CIA - The World Factbook -- Field Listing - Military expenditures
&nbsp; 
				    &nbsp; 
                    Field Listing - Military expenditures
         Home 
          &nbsp;Reference Maps 
          &nbsp;Appendixes 
          		&nbsp;Rank Order List
			Country
			Military expenditures (% of GDP) 
				Afghanistan
			1.9% of GDP (2006 est.) 
				Albania
			1.49% of GDP (2005 est.) 
				Algeria
			3.3% of GDP (2006) 
				Angola
			5.7% of GDP (2006) 
				Antigua and Barbuda
			NA 
				Argentina
			1.3% of GDP (2005 est.) 
				Armenia
			6.5% of GDP (FY01) 
				Australia
			2.4% of GDP (2006) 
				Austria
			0.9% of GDP (2005 est.) 
				Azerbaijan
			2.6% of GDP (2005 est.) 
				Bahamas, The
			0.5% of GDP (2006) 
				Bahrain
			4.5% of GDP (2006) 
				Bangladesh
			1.5% of GDP (2006) 
				Barbados
			0.5% of GDP (2006 est.) 
				Belarus
			1.4% of GDP (2005 est.) 
				Belgium
			1.3% of GDP (2005 est.) 
				Belize
			1.4% of GDP (2006) 
				Benin
			1.7% of GDP (2006) 
				Bermuda
			0.11% of GDP (2005 est.) 
				Bhutan
			1% of GDP (2005 est.) 
				Bolivia
			1.9% of GDP (2006) 
				Bosnia and Herzegovina
			4.5% of GDP (2005 est.) 
				Botswana
			3.3% of GDP (2006) 
				Brazil
			2.6% of GDP (2006 est.) 
				Brunei
			4.5% of GDP (2006) 
				Bulgaria
			2.6% of GDP (2005 est.) 
				Burkina Faso
			1.2% of GDP (2006) 
				Burma
			2.1% of GDP (2005 est.) 
				Burundi
			5.9% of GDP (2006 est.) 
				Cambodia
			3% of GDP (2005 est.) 
				Cameroon
			1.3% of GDP (2006) 
				Canada
			1.1% of GDP (2005 est.) 
				Cape Verde
			0.7% of GDP (2005) 
				Central African Republic
			1.1% of GDP (2006 est.) 
				Chad
			4.2% of GDP (2006) 
				Chile
			2.7% of GDP (2006) 
				China
			4.3% of GDP (2006) 
				Colombia
			3.4% of GDP (2005 est.) 
				Comoros
			2.8% of GDP (2006) 
				Congo, Democratic Republic of the
			2.5% of GDP (2006) 
				Congo, Republic of the
			3.1% of GDP (2006) 
				Costa Rica
			0.4% of GDP (2006) 
				Cote d'Ivoire
			1.6% of GDP (2005 est) 
				Croatia
			2.39% of GDP (2005 est.) 
				Cuba
			3.8% of GDP (2006 est.) 
				Cyprus
			3.8% of GDP (2005 est.) 
				Czech Republic
			1.46% of GDP (2007 est.) 
				Denmark
			1.5% of GDP (2006; 1.28% 2007 est.) 
				Djibouti
			3.8% of GDP (2006) 
				Dominica
			NA (2006) 
				Dominican Republic
			0.8% of GDP (2006) 
				Ecuador
			2.8% of GDP (2006) 
				Egypt
			3.4% of GDP (2005 est.) 
				El Salvador
			5% of GDP (2006) 
				Equatorial Guinea
			0.1% of GDP (2006 est.) 
				Eritrea
			6.3% of GDP (2006 est.) 
				Estonia
			2% of GDP (2005 est.) 
				Ethiopia
			3% of GDP (2006) 
				Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas)
			NA 
				Faroe Islands
			NA 
				Fiji
			2.2% of GDP (2005 est.) 
				Finland
			2% of GDP (2005 est.) 
				France
			2.6% of GDP (2005 est.) 
				Gabon
			3.4% of GDP (2005 est.) 
				Gambia, The
			0.5% of GDP (2006) 
				Gaza Strip
			NA 
				Georgia
			0.59% of GDP (2005 est.) 
				Germany
			1.5% of GDP (2005 est.) 
				Ghana
			0.8% of GDP (2006 est.) 
				Greece
			4.3% of GDP (2005 est.) 
				Grenada
			NA 
				Guatemala
			0.4% of GDP (2006) 
				Guinea
			1.7% of GDP (2006) 
				Guinea-Bissau
			3.1% of GDP (2005 est.) 
				Guyana
			1.8% of GDP (2006) 
				Haiti
			0.4% of GDP (2006) 
				Honduras
			0.6% of GDP (2006 est.) 
				Hong Kong
			NA 
				Hungary
			1.75% of GDP (2005 est.) 
				Iceland
			0% of GDP (2005 est.) 
				India
			2.5% of GDP (2006) 
				Indonesia
			3% of GDP (2005 est.) 
				Iran
			2.5% of GDP (2006) 
				Iraq
			8.6% of GDP (2006) 
				Ireland
			0.9% of GDP (2005 est.) 
				Israel
			7.3% of GDP (2006) 
				Italy
			1.8% of GDP (2005 est.) 
				Jamaica
			0.6% of GDP (2006 est.) 
				Japan
			0.8% of GDP (2006) 
				Jordan
			8.6% of GDP (2006) 
				Kazakhstan
			0.9% of GDP (Ministry of Defense expenditures) (FY02) 
				Kenya
			2.8% of GDP (2006) 
				Kiribati
			NA 
				Korea, North
			NA 
				Korea, South
			2.7% of GDP (2006) 
				Kuwait
			5.3% of GDP (2006) 
				Kyrgyzstan
			1.4% of GDP (2005 est.) 
				Laos
			0.5% of GDP (2006) 
				Latvia
			1.2% of GDP (2005 est.) 
				Lebanon
			3.1% of GDP (2005 est.) 
				Lesotho
			2.6% of GDP (2006) 
				Liberia
			1.3% of GDP (2006 est.) 
				Libya
			3.9% of GDP (2005 est.) 
				Lithuania
			1.2% of GDP (2006; 1.23% 2007 est.) 
				Luxembourg
			0.9% of GDP (2005 est.) 
				Macedonia
			6% of GDP (2005 est.) 
				Madagascar
			1% of GDP (2006) 
				Malawi
			1.3% of GDP (2006) 
				Malaysia
			2.03% of GDP (2005 est.) 
				Maldives
			5.5% of GDP (2005 est.) 
				Mali
			1.9% of GDP (2006) 
				Malta
			0.7% of GDP (2006 est.) 
				Marshall Islands
			NA 
				Mauritania
			5.5% of GDP (2006) 
				Mauritius
			0.3% of GDP (2006 est.) 
				Mexico
			0.5% of GDP (2006 est.) 
				Moldova
			0.4% of GDP (2005 est.) 
				Mongolia
			1.4% of GDP (2006) 
				Morocco
			5% of GDP (2003 est.) 
				Mozambique
			0.8% of GDP (2006) 
				Namibia
			3.7% of GDP (2006) 
				Nauru
			NA 
				Nepal
			1.6% of GDP (2006) 
				Netherlands
			1.6% of GDP (2005 est.) 
				New Caledonia
			NA 
				New Zealand
			1% of GDP (2005 est.) 
				Nicaragua
			0.6% of GDP (2006) 
				Niger
			1.3% of GDP (2006) 
				Nigeria
			1.5% of GDP (2006) 
				Norway
			1.9% of GDP (2005 est.) 
				Oman
			11.4% of GDP (2005 est.) 
				Pakistan
			3% of GDP (2007 est.) 
				Palau
			NA 
				Panama
			1% of GDP (2006) 
				Papua New Guinea
			1.4% of GDP (2005 est.) 
				Paraguay
			1% of GDP (2006 est.) 
				Peru
			1.5% of GDP (2006) 
				Philippines
			0.9% of GDP (2005 est.) 
				Poland
			1.71% of GDP (2005 est.) 
				Portugal
			2.3% of GDP (2005 est.) 
				Qatar
			10% of GDP (2005 est.) 
				Romania
			1.9% of GDP (2007 est.) 
				Russia
			3.9% of GDP (2005) 
				Rwanda
			2.9% of GDP (2006 est.) 
				Saint Kitts and Nevis
			NA 
				Saint Lucia
			NA 
				Saint Vincent and the Grenadines
			NA 
				Samoa
			NA 
				San Marino
			NA 
				Sao Tome and Principe
			0.8% of GDP (2006) 
				Saudi Arabia
			10% of GDP (2005 est.) 
				Senegal
			1.4% of GDP (2005 est.) 
				Seychelles
			2% of GDP (2006 est.) 
				Sierra Leone
			2.3% of GDP (2006) 
				Singapore
			4.9% of GDP (2005 est.) 
				Slovakia
			1.87% of GDP (2005 est.) 
				Slovenia
			1.7% of GDP (2005 est.) 
				Solomon Islands
			3% of GDP (2006) 
				Somalia
			0.9% of GDP (2005 est.) 
				South Africa
			1.7% of GDP (2006) 
				Spain
			1.2% of GDP (2005 est.) 
				Sri Lanka
			2.6% of GDP (2006) 
				Sudan
			3% of GDP (2005 est.) 
				Suriname
			0.6% of GDP (2006 est.) 
				Swaziland
			4.7% of GDP (2006) 
				Sweden
			1.5% of GDP (2005 est.) 
				Switzerland
			1% of GDP (2005 est.) 
				Syria
			5.9% of GDP (2005 est.) 
				Taiwan
			2.2% of GDP (2006) 
				Tajikistan
			3.9% of GDP (2005 est.) 
				Tanzania
			0.2% of GDP (2005 est.) 
				Thailand
			1.8% of GDP (2005 est.) 
				Timor-Leste
			NA 
				Togo
			1.6% of GDP (2005 est.) 
				Tonga
			0.9% of GDP (2006 est.) 
				Trinidad and Tobago
			0.3% of GDP (2006) 
				Tunisia
			1.4% of GDP (2006) 
				Turkey
			5.3% of GDP (2005 est.) 
				Turkmenistan
			3.4% of GDP (2005 est.) 
				Tuvalu
			NA 
				Uganda
			2.2% of GDP (2006) 
				Ukraine
			1.4% of GDP (2005 est.) 
				United Arab Emirates
			3.1% of GDP (2005 est.) 
				United Kingdom
			2.4% of GDP (2005 est.) 
				United States
			4.06% of GDP (2005 est.) 
				Uruguay
			1.6% of GDP (2006) 
				Uzbekistan
			2% of GDP (2005 est.) 
				Vanuatu
			NA 
				Venezuela
			1.2% of GDP (2005 est.) 
				Vietnam
			2.5% of GDP (2005 est.) 
				West Bank
			NA 
				World
			roughly 2% of GDP of gross world product (2005 est.) 
				Yemen
			6.6% of GDP (2006) 
				Zambia
			1.8% of GDP (2005 est.) 
				Zimbabwe
			3.8% of GDP (2006)  		
				This page was last updated on 19 March 2009
&nbsp; 
CIA - The World Factbook -- Field Listing - Agriculture - products
&nbsp; 
				    &nbsp; 
                    Field Listing - Agriculture - products
         Home 
          &nbsp;Reference Maps 
          &nbsp;Appendixes 
			Country
			Agriculture - products 	
				Afghanistan
			opium, wheat, fruits, nuts; wool, mutton, sheepskins, lambskins 
				Albania
			wheat, corn, potatoes, vegetables, fruits, sugar beets, grapes; meat, dairy products 
				Algeria
			wheat, barley, oats, grapes, olives, citrus, fruits; sheep, cattle 
				American Samoa
			bananas, coconuts, vegetables, taro, breadfruit, yams, copra, pineapples, papayas; dairy products, livestock 
				Andorra
			small quantities of rye, wheat, barley, oats, vegetables; sheep 
				Angola
			bananas, sugarcane, coffee, sisal, corn, cotton, manioc (tapioca), tobacco, vegetables, plantains; livestock; forest products; fish 
				Anguilla
			small quantities of tobacco, vegetables; cattle raising 
				Antigua and Barbuda
			cotton, fruits, vegetables, bananas, coconuts, cucumbers, mangoes, sugarcane; livestock 
				Argentina
			sunflower seeds, lemons, soybeans, grapes, corn, tobacco, peanuts, tea, wheat; livestock 
				Armenia
			fruit (especially grapes), vegetables; livestock 
				Aruba
			aloes; livestock; fish 
				Australia
			wheat, barley, sugarcane, fruits, cattle, sheep, poultry 
				Austria
			grains, potatoes, sugar beets, wine, fruit; dairy products, cattle, pigs, poultry; lumber 
				Azerbaijan
			cotton, grain, rice, grapes, fruit, vegetables, tea, tobacco; cattle, pigs, sheep, goats 
				Bahamas, The
			citrus, vegetables; poultry 
				Bahrain
			fruit, vegetables; poultry, dairy products; shrimp, fish 
				Bangladesh
			rice, jute, tea, wheat, sugarcane, potatoes, tobacco, pulses, oilseeds, spices, fruit; beef, milk, poultry 
				Barbados
			sugarcane, vegetables, cotton 
				Belarus
			grain, potatoes, vegetables, sugar beets, flax; beef, milk 
				Belgium
			sugar beets, fresh vegetables, fruits, grain, tobacco; beef, veal, pork, milk 
				Belize
			bananas, cacao, citrus, sugar; fish, cultured shrimp; lumber; garments 
				Benin
			cotton, corn, cassava (tapioca), yams, beans, palm oil, peanuts, cashews; livestock 
				Bermuda
			bananas, vegetables, citrus, flowers; dairy products, honey 
				Bhutan
			rice, corn, root crops, citrus, foodgrains; dairy products, eggs 
				Bolivia
			soybeans, coffee, coca, cotton, corn, sugarcane, rice, potatoes; timber 
				Bosnia and Herzegovina
			wheat, corn, fruits, vegetables; livestock 
				Botswana
			livestock, sorghum, maize, millet, beans, sunflowers, groundnuts 
				Brazil
			coffee, soybeans, wheat, rice, corn, sugarcane, cocoa, citrus; beef 
				British Virgin Islands
			fruits, vegetables; livestock, poultry; fish 
				Brunei
			rice, vegetables, fruits; chickens, water buffalo, cattle, goats, eggs 
				Bulgaria
			vegetables, fruits, tobacco, wine, wheat, barley, sunflowers, sugar beets; livestock 
				Burkina Faso
			cotton, peanuts, shea nuts, sesame, sorghum, millet, corn, rice; livestock 
				Burma
			rice, pulses, beans, sesame, groundnuts, sugarcane; hardwood; fish and fish products 
				Burundi
			coffee, cotton, tea, corn, sorghum, sweet potatoes, bananas, manioc (tapioca); beef, milk, hides 
				Cambodia
			rice, rubber, corn, vegetables, cashews, tapioca, silk 
				Cameroon
			coffee, cocoa, cotton, rubber, bananas, oilseed, grains, root starches; livestock; timber 
				Canada
			wheat, barley, oilseed, tobacco, fruits, vegetables; dairy products; forest products; fish 
				Cape Verde
			bananas, corn, beans, sweet potatoes, sugarcane, coffee, peanuts; fish 
				Cayman Islands
			vegetables, fruit; livestock; turtle farming 
				Central African Republic
			timber, cotton, coffee, tobacco, manioc (tapioca), yams, millet, corn, bananas; timber 
				Chad
			cotton, sorghum, millet, peanuts, rice, potatoes, manioc (tapioca); cattle, sheep, goats, camels 
				Chile
			grapes, apples, pears, onions, wheat, corn, oats, peaches, garlic, asparagus, beans; beef, poultry, wool; fish; timber 
				China
			rice, wheat, potatoes, corn, peanuts, tea, millet, barley, apples, cotton, oilseed; pork; fish 
				Christmas Island
			NA 
				Cocos (Keeling) Islands
			vegetables, bananas, pawpaws, coconuts 
				Colombia
			coffee, cut flowers, bananas, rice, tobacco, corn, sugarcane, cocoa beans, oilseed, vegetables; forest products; shrimp 
				Comoros
			vanilla, cloves, ylang-ylang, perfume essences, copra, coconuts, bananas, cassava (tapioca) 
				Congo, Democratic Republic of the
			coffee, sugar, palm oil, rubber, tea, quinine, cassava (tapioca), palm oil, bananas, root crops, corn, fruits; wood products 
				Congo, Republic of the
			cassava (tapioca), sugar, rice, corn, peanuts, vegetables, coffee, cocoa; forest products 
				Cook Islands
			copra, citrus, pineapples, tomatoes, beans, pawpaws, bananas, yams, taro, coffee; pigs, poultry 
				Costa Rica
			bananas, pineapples, coffee, melons, ornamental plants, sugar, corn, rice, beans, potatoes; beef, poultry, dairy; timber 
				Cote d'Ivoire
			coffee, cocoa beans, bananas, palm kernels, corn, rice, manioc (tapioca), sweet potatoes, sugar, cotton, rubber; timber 
				Croatia
			wheat, corn, sugar beets, sunflower seed, barley, alfalfa, clover, olives, citrus, grapes, soybeans, potatoes; livestock, dairy products 
				Cuba
			sugar, tobacco, citrus, coffee, rice, potatoes, beans; livestock 
				Cyprus
			citrus, vegetables, barley, grapes, olives, vegetables; poultry, pork, lamb; dairy, cheese 
				Czech Republic
			wheat, potatoes, sugar beets, hops, fruit; pigs, poultry 
				Denmark
			barley, wheat, potatoes, sugar beets; pork, dairy products; fish 
				Djibouti
			fruits, vegetables; goats, sheep, camels, animal hides 
				Dominica
			bananas, citrus, mangoes, root crops, coconuts, cocoa; forest and fishery potential not exploited 
				Dominican Republic
			sugarcane, coffee, cotton, cocoa, tobacco, rice, beans, potatoes, corn, bananas; cattle, pigs, dairy products, beef, eggs 
				Ecuador
			bananas, coffee, cocoa, rice, potatoes, manioc (tapioca), plantains, sugarcane; cattle, sheep, pigs, beef, pork, dairy products; balsa wood; fish, shrimp 
				Egypt
			cotton, rice, corn, wheat, beans, fruits, vegetables; cattle, water buffalo, sheep, goats 
				El Salvador
			coffee, sugar, corn, rice, beans, oilseed, cotton, sorghum; beef, dairy products 
				Equatorial Guinea
			coffee, cocoa, rice, yams, cassava (tapioca), bananas, palm oil nuts; livestock; timber 
				Eritrea
			sorghum, lentils, vegetables, corn, cotton, tobacco, sisal; livestock, goats; fish 
				Estonia
			potatoes, vegetables; livestock and dairy products; fish 
				Ethiopia
			cereals, pulses, coffee, oilseed, cotton, sugarcane, potatoes, qat, cut flowers; hides, cattle, sheep, goats; fish 
				European Union
			wheat, barley, oilseeds, sugar beets, wine, grapes; dairy products, cattle, sheep, pigs, poultry; fish 
				Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas)
			fodder and vegetable crops; sheep, dairy products; fish, squid 
				Faroe Islands
			milk, potatoes, vegetables; sheep; salmon, other fish 
				Fiji
			sugarcane, coconuts, cassava (tapioca), rice, sweet potatoes, bananas; cattle, pigs, horses, goats; fish 
				Finland
			barley, wheat, sugar beets, potatoes; dairy cattle; fish 
				France
			wheat, cereals, sugar beets, potatoes, wine grapes; beef, dairy products; fish 
				French Polynesia
			fish; coconuts, vanilla, vegetables, fruits, coffee; poultry, beef, dairy products 
				Gabon
			cocoa, coffee, sugar, palm oil, rubber; cattle; okoume (a tropical softwood); fish 
				Gambia, The
			rice, millet, sorghum, peanuts, corn, sesame, cassava (tapioca), palm kernels; cattle, sheep, goats 
				Gaza Strip
			olives, citrus fruit, vegetables, flowers, beef, dairy products 
				Georgia
			citrus, grapes, tea, hazelnuts, vegetables; livestock 
				Germany
			potatoes, wheat, barley, sugar beets, fruit, cabbages; cattle, pigs, poultry 
				Ghana
			cocoa, rice, cassava (tapioca), peanuts, corn, shea nuts, bananas; timber 
				Gibraltar
			none 
				Greece
			wheat, corn, barley, sugar beets, olives, tomatoes, wine, tobacco, potatoes; beef, dairy products 
				Greenland
			forage crops, garden and greenhouse vegetables; sheep, reindeer; fish 
				Grenada
			bananas, cocoa, nutmeg, mace, citrus, avocados, root crops, sugarcane, corn, vegetables 
				Guam
			fruits, copra, vegetables; eggs, pork, poultry, beef 
				Guatemala
			sugarcane, corn, bananas, coffee, beans, cardamom; cattle, sheep, pigs, chickens 
				Guernsey
			tomatoes, greenhouse flowers, sweet peppers, eggplant, fruit; Guernsey cattle 
				Guinea
			rice, coffee, pineapples, palm kernels, cassava (tapioca), bananas, sweet potatoes; cattle, sheep, goats; timber 
				Guinea-Bissau
			rice, corn, beans, cassava (tapioca), cashew nuts, peanuts, palm kernels, cotton; timber; fish 
				Guyana
			sugarcane, rice, shrimp, fish, edible oils; beef, pork, poultry 
				Haiti
			coffee, mangoes, sugarcane, rice, corn, sorghum; wood 
				Honduras
			bananas, coffee, citrus; beef; timber; shrimp, tilapia, lobster; corn, African palm 
				Hong Kong
			fresh vegetables; poultry, pork; fish 
				Hungary
			wheat, corn, sunflower seed, potatoes, sugar beets; pigs, cattle, poultry, dairy products 
				Iceland
			potatoes, green vegetables; mutton, dairy products; fish 
				India
			rice, wheat, oilseed, cotton, jute, tea, sugarcane, potatoes; onions, dairy products, sheep, goats, poultry; fish 
				Indonesia
			rice, cassava (tapioca), peanuts, rubber, cocoa, coffee, palm oil, copra; poultry, beef, pork, eggs 
				Iran
			wheat, rice, other grains, sugar beets, sugar cane, fruits, nuts, cotton; dairy products, wool; caviar 
				Iraq
			wheat, barley, rice, vegetables, dates, cotton; cattle, sheep, poultry
				Ireland
			turnips, barley, potatoes, sugar beets, wheat; beef, dairy products 
				Isle of Man
			cereals, vegetables; cattle, sheep, pigs, poultry 
				Israel
			citrus, vegetables, cotton; beef, poultry, dairy products 
				Italy
			fruits, vegetables, grapes, potatoes, sugar beets, soybeans, grain, olives; beef, dairy products; fish 
				Jamaica
			sugarcane, bananas, coffee, citrus, yams, ackees, vegetables; poultry, goats, milk; crustaceans, mollusks 
				Japan
			rice, sugar beets, vegetables, fruit; pork, poultry, dairy products, eggs; fish 
				Jersey
			potatoes, cauliflower, tomatoes; beef, dairy products 
				Jordan
			citrus, tomatoes, cucumbers, olives; sheep, poultry, stone fruits, strawberries, dairy 
				Kazakhstan
			grain (mostly spring wheat), cotton; livestock 
				Kenya
			tea, coffee, corn, wheat, sugarcane, fruit, vegetables; dairy products, beef, pork, poultry, eggs 
				Kiribati
			copra, taro, breadfruit, sweet potatoes, vegetables; fish 
				Korea, North
			rice, corn, potatoes, soybeans, pulses; cattle, pigs, pork, eggs 
				Korea, South
			rice, root crops, barley, vegetables, fruit; cattle, pigs, chickens, milk, eggs; fish 
				Kosovo
			wheat, corn, berries, potatoes, peppers 
				Kuwait
			practically no crops; fish 
				Kyrgyzstan
			tobacco, cotton, potatoes, vegetables, grapes, fruits and berries; sheep, goats, cattle, wool 
				Laos
			sweet potatoes, vegetables, corn, coffee, sugarcane, tobacco, cotton, tea, peanuts, rice; water buffalo, pigs, cattle, poultry 
				Latvia
			grain, sugar beets, potatoes, vegetables; beef, pork, milk, eggs; fish 
				Lebanon
			citrus, grapes, tomatoes, apples, vegetables, potatoes, olives, tobacco; sheep, goats 
				Lesotho
			corn, wheat, pulses, sorghum, barley; livestock 
				Liberia
			rubber, coffee, cocoa, rice, cassava (tapioca), palm oil, sugarcane, bananas; sheep, goats; timber 
				Libya
			wheat, barley, olives, dates, citrus, vegetables, peanuts, soybeans; cattle 
				Liechtenstein
			wheat, barley, corn, potatoes; livestock, dairy products 
				Lithuania
			grain, potatoes, sugar beets, flax, vegetables; beef, milk, eggs; fish 
				Luxembourg
			wine, grapes, barley, oats, potatoes, wheat, fruits; dairy products, livestock products 
				Macau
			only 2% of land area is cultivated, mainly by vegetable growers; fishing, mostly for crustaceans, is important; some of the catch is exported to Hong Kong 
				Macedonia
			grapes, wine, tobacco, vegetables, fruits; milk, eggs 
				Madagascar
			coffee, vanilla, sugarcane, cloves, cocoa, rice, cassava (tapioca), beans, bananas, peanuts; livestock products 
				Malawi
			tobacco, sugarcane, cotton, tea, corn, potatoes, cassava (tapioca), sorghum, pulses, groundnuts, Macadamia nuts; cattle, goats 
				Malaysia
			Peninsular Malaysia - rubber, palm oil, cocoa, rice; Sabah - subsistence crops, rubber, timber, coconuts, rice; Sarawak - rubber, pepper, timber 
				Maldives
			coconuts, corn, sweet potatoes; fish 
				Mali
			cotton, millet, rice, corn, vegetables, peanuts; cattle, sheep, goats 
				Malta
			potatoes, cauliflower, grapes, wheat, barley, tomatoes, citrus, cut flowers, green peppers; pork, milk, poultry, eggs 
				Marshall Islands
			coconuts, tomatoes, melons, taro, breadfruit, fruits; pigs, chickens 
				Mauritania
			dates, millet, sorghum, rice, corn; cattle, sheep 
				Mauritius
			sugarcane, tea, corn, potatoes, bananas, pulses; cattle, goats; fish 
				Mayotte
			vanilla, ylang-ylang (perfume essence), coffee, copra, fish, livestock 
				Mexico
			corn, wheat, soybeans, rice, beans, cotton, coffee, fruit, tomatoes; beef, poultry, dairy products; wood products 
				Micronesia, Federated States of
			black pepper, tropical fruits and vegetables, coconuts, bananas, cassava (tapioca), sakau (kava), betel nuts, sweet potatoes; pigs, chickens; fish; Kosraen citrus 
				Moldova
			vegetables, fruits, wine, grain, sugar beets, sunflower seed, tobacco; beef, milk 
				Monaco
			none 
				Mongolia
			wheat, barley, vegetables, forage crops; sheep, goats, cattle, camels, horses 
				Montenegro
			grains, tobacco, potatoes, citrus fruits, olives, grapes; sheepherding; commercial fishing negligible 
				Montserrat
			cabbages, carrots, cucumbers, tomatoes, onions, peppers; livestock products 
				Morocco
			barley, wheat, citrus, wine, vegetables, olives; livestock 
				Mozambique
			cotton, cashew nuts, sugarcane, tea, cassava (tapioca), corn, coconuts, sisal, citrus and tropical fruits, potatoes, sunflowers; beef, poultry 
				Namibia
			millet, sorghum, peanuts, grapes; livestock; fish 
				Nauru
			coconuts 
				Nepal
			pulses, rice, corn, wheat, sugarcane, jute, root crops; milk, water buffalo meat 
				Netherlands
			grains, potatoes, sugar beets, fruits, vegetables; livestock 
				Netherlands Antilles
			aloes, sorghum, peanuts, vegetables, tropical fruit 
				New Caledonia
			vegetables; beef, deer, other livestock products; fish 
				New Zealand
			dairy products, lamb and mutton; wheat, barley, potatoes, pulses, fruits, vegetables; wool, beef; fish 
				Nicaragua
			coffee, bananas, sugarcane, cotton, rice, corn, tobacco, sesame, soya, beans; beef, veal, pork, poultry, dairy products; shrimp, lobsters 
				Niger
			cowpeas, cotton, peanuts, millet, sorghum, cassava (tapioca), rice; cattle, sheep, goats, camels, donkeys, horses, poultry 
				Nigeria
			cocoa, peanuts, palm oil, corn, rice, sorghum, millet, cassava (tapioca), yams, rubber; cattle, sheep, goats, pigs; timber; fish 
				Niue
			coconuts, passion fruit, honey, limes, taro, yams, cassava (tapioca), sweet potatoes; pigs, poultry, beef cattle 
				Norfolk Island
			Norfolk Island pine seed, Kentia palm seed, cereals, vegetables, fruit; cattle, poultry 
				Northern Mariana Islands
			vegetables and melons, fruits and nuts, ornamental plants, livestock, poultry and eggs, fish and aquaculture products 
				Norway
			barley, wheat, potatoes; pork, beef, veal, milk; fish 
				Oman
			dates, limes, bananas, alfalfa, vegetables; camels, cattle; fish 
				Pakistan
			cotton, wheat, rice, sugarcane, fruits, vegetables; milk, beef, mutton, eggs 
				Palau
			coconuts, copra, cassava (tapioca), sweet potatoes; fish 
				Panama
			bananas, rice, corn, coffee, sugarcane, vegetables; livestock; shrimp 
				Papua New Guinea
			coffee, cocoa, copra, palm kernels, tea, sugar, rubber, sweet potatoes, fruit, vegetables, vanilla; shell fish, poultry, pork 
				Paraguay
			cotton, sugarcane, soybeans, corn, wheat, tobacco, cassava (tapioca), fruits, vegetables; beef, pork, eggs, milk; timber 
				Peru
			asparagus, coffee, cocoa, cotton, sugarcane, rice, potatoes, corn, plantains, grapes, oranges, pineapples, guavas, bananas, apples, lemons, pears, coca, tomatoes, mango, barley, medicinal plants, palm oil, marigold, onion, wheat, dry beans; poultry, beef, dairy products; fish, guinea pigs 
				Philippines
			sugarcane, coconuts, rice, corn, bananas, cassavas, pineapples, mangoes; pork, eggs, beef; fish 
				Pitcairn Islands
			honey; wide variety of fruits and vegetables; goats, chickens, fish 
				Poland
			potatoes, fruits, vegetables, wheat; poultry, eggs, pork, dairy 
				Portugal
			grain, potatoes, tomatoes, olives, grapes; sheep, cattle, goats, swine, poultry, dairy products; fish 
				Puerto Rico
			sugarcane, coffee, pineapples, plantains, bananas; livestock products, chickens 
				Qatar
			fruits, vegetables; poultry, dairy products, beef; fish 
				Romania
			wheat, corn, barley, sugar beets, sunflower seed, potatoes, grapes; eggs, sheep 
				Russia
			grain, sugar beets, sunflower seed, vegetables, fruits; beef, milk 
				Rwanda
			coffee, tea, pyrethrum (insecticide made from chrysanthemums), bananas, beans, sorghum, potatoes; livestock 
				Saint Helena
			coffee, corn, potatoes, vegetables; timber; fish, lobster (on Tristan da Cunha); livestock 
				Saint Kitts and Nevis
			sugarcane, rice, yams, vegetables, bananas; fish 
				Saint Lucia
			bananas, coconuts, vegetables, citrus, root crops, cocoa 
				Saint Pierre and Miquelon
			vegetables; poultry, cattle, sheep, pigs; fish 
				Saint Vincent and the Grenadines
			bananas, coconuts, sweet potatoes, spices; small numbers of cattle, sheep, pigs, goats; fish 
				Samoa
			coconuts, bananas, taro, yams, coffee, cocoa 
				San Marino
			wheat, grapes, corn, olives; cattle, pigs, horses, beef, cheese, hides 
				Sao Tome and Principe
			cocoa, coconuts, palm kernels, copra, cinnamon, pepper, coffee, bananas, papayas, beans; poultry; fish 
				Saudi Arabia
			wheat, barley, tomatoes, melons, dates, citrus; mutton, chickens, eggs, milk 
				Senegal
			peanuts, millet, corn, sorghum, rice, cotton, tomatoes, green vegetables; cattle, poultry, pigs; fish 
				Serbia
			wheat, maize, sugar beets, sunflower, raspberries, beef, pork, milk 
				Seychelles
			coconuts, cinnamon, vanilla, sweet potatoes, cassava (tapioca), bananas; poultry; tuna 
				Sierra Leone
			rice, coffee, cocoa, palm kernels, palm oil, peanuts; poultry, cattle, sheep, pigs; fish 
				Singapore
			orchids, vegetables; poultry, eggs; fish, ornamental fish 
				Slovakia
			grains, potatoes, sugar beets, hops, fruit; pigs, cattle, poultry; forest products 
				Slovenia
			potatoes, hops, wheat, sugar beets, corn, grapes; cattle, sheep, poultry 
				Solomon Islands
			cocoa beans, coconuts, palm kernels, rice, potatoes, vegetables, fruit; timber; cattle, pigs; fish 
				Somalia
			bananas, sorghum, corn, coconuts, rice, sugarcane, mangoes, sesame seeds, beans; cattle, sheep, goats; fish 
				South Africa
			corn, wheat, sugarcane, fruits, vegetables; beef, poultry, mutton, wool, dairy products 
				Spain
			grain, vegetables, olives, wine grapes, sugar beets, citrus; beef, pork, poultry, dairy products; fish 
				Sri Lanka
			rice, sugarcane, grains, pulses, oilseed, spices, tea, rubber, coconuts; milk, eggs, hides, beef; fish 
				Sudan
			cotton, groundnuts (peanuts), sorghum, millet, wheat, gum arabic, sugarcane, cassava (tapioca), mangos, papaya, bananas, sweet potatoes, sesame; sheep, livestock 
				Suriname
			paddy rice, bananas, palm kernels, coconuts, plantains, peanuts; beef, chickens; shrimp; forest products 
				Swaziland
			sugarcane, cotton, corn, tobacco, rice, citrus, pineapples, sorghum, peanuts; cattle, goats, sheep 
				Sweden
			barley, wheat, sugar beets; meat, milk 
				Switzerland
			grains, fruits, vegetables; meat, eggs 
				Syria
			wheat, barley, cotton, lentils, chickpeas, olives, sugar beets; beef, mutton, eggs, poultry, milk 
				Taiwan
			rice, corn, vegetables, fruit, tea; pigs, poultry, beef, milk; fish 
				Tajikistan
			cotton, grain, fruits, grapes, vegetables; cattle, sheep, goats 
				Tanzania
			coffee, sisal, tea, cotton, pyrethrum (insecticide made from chrysanthemums), cashew nuts, tobacco, cloves, corn, wheat, cassava (tapioca), bananas, fruits, vegetables; cattle, sheep, goats 
				Thailand
			rice, cassava (tapioca), rubber, corn, sugarcane, coconuts, soybeans 
				Timor-Leste
			coffee, rice, corn, cassava, sweet potatoes, soybeans, cabbage, mangoes, bananas, vanilla 
				Togo
			coffee, cocoa, cotton, yams, cassava (tapioca), corn, beans, rice, millet, sorghum; livestock; fish 
				Tokelau
			coconuts, copra, breadfruit, papayas, bananas; pigs, poultry, goats; fish 
				Tonga
			squash, coconuts, copra, bananas, vanilla beans, cocoa, coffee, ginger, black pepper; fish 
				Trinidad and Tobago
			cocoa, rice, citrus, coffee, vegetables; poultry 
				Tunisia
			olives, olive oil, grain, tomatoes, citrus fruit, sugar beets, dates, almonds; beef, dairy products 
				Turkey
			tobacco, cotton, grain, olives, sugar beets, hazelnuts, pulse, citrus; livestock 
				Turkmenistan
			cotton, grain; livestock 
				Turks and Caicos Islands
			corn, beans, cassava (tapioca), citrus fruits; fish 
				Tuvalu
			coconuts; fish 
				Uganda
			coffee, tea, cotton, tobacco, cassava (tapioca), potatoes, corn, millet, pulses, cut flowers; beef, goat meat, milk, poultry 
				Ukraine
			grain, sugar beets, sunflower seeds, vegetables; beef, milk 
				United Arab Emirates
			dates, vegetables, watermelons; poultry, eggs, dairy products; fish 
				United Kingdom
			cereals, oilseed, potatoes, vegetables; cattle, sheep, poultry; fish 
				United States
			wheat, corn, other grains, fruits, vegetables, cotton; beef, pork, poultry, dairy products; fish; forest products 
				Uruguay
			rice, wheat, soybeans, barley; livestock, beef; fish; forestry 
				Uzbekistan
			cotton, vegetables, fruits, grain; livestock 
				Vanuatu
			copra, coconuts, cocoa, coffee, taro, yams, fruits, vegetables; beef; fish 
				Venezuela
			corn, sorghum, sugarcane, rice, bananas, vegetables, coffee; beef, pork, milk, eggs; fish 
				Vietnam
			paddy rice, coffee, rubber, cotton, tea, pepper, soybeans, cashews, sugar cane, peanuts, bananas; poultry; fish, seafood 
				Virgin Islands
			fruit, vegetables, sorghum; Senepol cattle 
				Wallis and Futuna
			breadfruit, yams, taro, bananas; pigs, goats; fish 
				West Bank
			olives, citrus, vegetables; beef, dairy products 
				Western Sahara
			fruits and vegetables (grown in the few oases); camels, sheep, goats (kept by nomads); fish 
				Yemen
			grain, fruits, vegetables, pulses, qat, coffee, cotton; dairy products, livestock (sheep, goats, cattle, camels), poultry; fish 
				Zambia
			corn, sorghum, rice, peanuts, sunflower seed, vegetables, flowers, tobacco, cotton, sugarcane, cassava (tapioca), coffee; cattle, goats, pigs, poultry, milk, eggs, hides 
				Zimbabwe
			corn, cotton, tobacco, wheat, coffee, sugarcane, peanuts; sheep, goats, pigs  		
				This page was last updated on 19 March 2009
&nbsp; 
CIA - The World Factbook -- Field Listing - Labor force - by occupation
&nbsp; 
				    &nbsp; 
                    Field Listing - Labor force - by occupation
         Home 
          &nbsp;Reference Maps 
          &nbsp;Appendixes 
			Country
			Labor force - by occupation (%) 
				Afghanistan
				agriculture: 80% 
				industry: 10% 
				services: 10% (2004 est.) 
				Albania
				agriculture: 58% 
				industry: 15% 
				services: 27% (September 2006 est.) 
				Algeria
			agriculture 14%, industry 13.4%, construction and public works 10%, trade 14.6%, government 32%, other 16% (2003 est.) 
				American Samoa
				agriculture: 34% 
				industry: 33% 
				services: 33% (1990) 
				Andorra
				agriculture: 0.3% 
				industry: 20.8% 
				services: 79% (2007) 
				Angola
				agriculture: 85% 
				industry and services: 15% (2003 est.) 
				Anguilla
			agriculture/fishing/forestry/mining 4%, manufacturing 3%, construction 18%, transportation and utilities 10%, commerce 36%, services 29% (2000 est.) 
				Antigua and Barbuda
				agriculture: 7% 
				industry: 11% 
				services: 82% (1983) 
				Argentina
				agriculture: 1% 
				industry: 23% 
				services: 76% (2008 est.) 
				Armenia
				agriculture: 46.2% 
				industry: 15.6% 
				services: 38.2% (2006 est.) 
				Aruba
				agriculture: NA% 
				industry: NA% 
				services: NA% 
				note: most employment is in wholesale and retail trade and repair, followed by hotels and restaurants; oil refining 
				Australia
				agriculture: 3.6% 
				industry: 21.1% 
				services: 75% (2005 est.) 
				Austria
				agriculture: 5.5% 
				industry: 27.5% 
				services: 67% (2005 est.) 
				Azerbaijan
				agriculture: 39.3% 
				industry: 12.1% 
				services: 48.6% (2005) 
				Bahamas, The
			agriculture 5%, industry 5%, tourism 50%, other services 40% (2005 est.) 
				Bahrain
				agriculture: 1% 
				industry: 79% 
				services: 20% (1997 est.) 
				Bangladesh
				agriculture: 63% 
				industry: 11% 
				services: 26% (FY95/96) 
				Barbados
				agriculture: 10% 
				industry: 15% 
				services: 75% (1996 est.) 
				Belarus
				agriculture: 14% 
				industry: 34.7% 
				services: 51.3% (2003 est.) 
				Belgium
				agriculture: 2% 
				industry: 25% 
				services: 73% (2007 est.) 
				Belize
				agriculture: 19.5% 
				industry: 17.9% 
				services: 61.9% (2005 est.) 
				Bermuda
			agriculture and fishing 3%, laborers 17%, clerical 19%, professional and technical 21%, administrative and managerial 15%, sales 7%, services 19% (2004 est.) 
				Bhutan
				agriculture: 63% 
				industry: 6% 
				services: 31% (2004 est.) 
				Bolivia
				agriculture: 40% 
				industry: 17% 
				services: 43% (2006 est.) 
				Bosnia and Herzegovina
				agriculture: NA% 
				industry: NA% 
				services: NA% 
				Botswana
				agriculture: NA% 
				industry: NA% 
				services: NA% 
				Brazil
				agriculture: 20% 
				industry: 14% 
				services: 66% (2003 est.) 
				British Virgin Islands
				agriculture: 0.6% 
				industry: 40% 
				services: 59.4% (2005) 
				Brunei
				agriculture: 4.5% 
				industry: 63.1% 
				services: 32.4% (2003 est.) 
				Bulgaria
				agriculture: 7.5% 
				industry: 35.5% 
				services: 57% (2007 est.) 
				Burkina Faso
				agriculture: 90% 
				industry and services: 10% (2000 est.) 
				Burma
				agriculture: 70% 
				industry: 7% 
				services: 23% (2001 est.) 
				Burundi
				agriculture: 93.6% 
				industry: 2.3% 
				services: 4.1% (2002 est.) 
				Cambodia
				agriculture: 75% 
				industry: NA% 
				services: NA% 
				Cameroon
				agriculture: 70% 
				industry: 13% 
				services: 17% (2001 est.) 
				Canada
			agriculture 2%, manufacturing 13%, construction 6%, services 76%, other 3% (2006) 
				Cayman Islands
				agriculture: 1.4% 
				industry: 12.6% 
				services: 86% (1995) 
				Chad
				agriculture: 80% (subsistence farming, herding, and fishing) 
				industry and services: 20% (2006 est.) 
				Chile
				agriculture: 13.2% 
				industry: 23% 
				services: 63.9% (2005) 
				China
				agriculture: 43% 
				industry: 25% 
				services: 32% (2006 est.) 
				Cocos (Keeling) Islands
				note: the Cocos Islands Cooperative Society Ltd. employs construction workers, stevedores, and lighterage workers; tourism employs others 
				Colombia
				agriculture: 22.4% 
				industry: 18.8% 
				services: 58.8% (2005 est.) 
				Comoros
				agriculture: 80% 
				industry and services: 20% (1996 est.) 
				Congo, Democratic Republic of the
				agriculture: NA% 
				industry: NA% 
				services: NA% 
				Cook Islands
				agriculture: 29% 
				industry: 15% 
				services: 56% (1995) 
				Costa Rica
				agriculture: 14% 
				industry: 22% 
				services: 64% (2006 est.) 
				Cote d'Ivoire
				agriculture: 68% 
				industry and services: NA 
				Croatia
				agriculture: 5% 
				industry: 31.3% 
				services: 63.6% (2008) 
				Cuba
				agriculture: 20% 
				industry: 19.4% 
				services: 60.6% (2005) 
				Cyprus
				agriculture: 8.5% 
				industry: 20.5% 
				services: 71% (2006 est.) 
				Czech Republic
				agriculture: 3.6% 
				industry: 40.2% 
				services: 56.2% (2007) 
				Denmark
				agriculture: 2.9% 
				industry: 23.8% 
				services: 72.7% (2005 est.) 
				Djibouti
				agriculture: NA% 
				industry: NA% 
				services: NA% 
				Dominica
				agriculture: 40% 
				industry: 32% 
				services: 28% (2000 est.) 
				Dominican Republic
				agriculture: 14.6% 
				industry: 22.3% 
				services: 63.1% (2005 est.) 
				Ecuador
				agriculture: 8.3% 
				industry: 21.2% 
				services: 70.4% (2005) 
				Egypt
				agriculture: 32% 
				industry: 17% 
				services: 51% (2001 est.) 
				El Salvador
				agriculture: 19% 
				industry: 23% 
				services: 58% (2006 est.) 
				Eritrea
				agriculture: 80% 
				industry and services: 20% (2004 est.) 
				Estonia
				agriculture: 4.7% 
				industry: 33.7% 
				services: 61.6% (2007) 
				Ethiopia
				agriculture: 80.2% 
				industry: 6.6% 
				services: 13.2% (2005) 
				European Union
				agriculture: 5.6% 
				industry: 27.7% 
				services: 66.7% 
				note: the remainder is in miscellaneous public and private sector industries and services (2007 est.) 
				Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas)
				agriculture: 95% (mostly sheepherding and fishing) 
				industry and services: 5% (1996) 
				Faroe Islands
				agriculture: 11.2% 
				industry: 21.9% 
				services: 66.9% (2007) 
				Fiji
				agriculture: 70% 
				industry and services: 30% (2001 est.) 
				Finland
			agriculture and forestry 4.5%, industry 18.3%, construction 7.3%, commerce 16%, finance, insurance, and business services 14.5%, transport and communications 7%, public services 32.4% (2008) 
				France
				agriculture: 3.8% 
				industry: 24.3% 
				services: 71.8% (2005) 
				French Polynesia
				agriculture: 13% 
				industry: 19% 
				services: 68% (2002) 
				Gabon
				agriculture: 60% 
				industry: 15% 
				services: 25% 
				Gambia, The
				agriculture: 75% 
				industry: 19% 
				services: 6% (1996) 
				Gaza Strip
				agriculture: 12% 
				industry: 5% 
				services: 83% (June 2008) 
				Georgia
				agriculture: 55.6% 
				industry: 8.9% 
				services: 35.5% (2006 est.) 
				Germany
				agriculture: 2.4% 
				industry: 29.7% 
				services: 67.8% (2005) 
				Ghana
				agriculture: 56% 
				industry: 15% 
				services: 29% (2005 est.) 
				Gibraltar
				agriculture: negligible 
				industry: 40% 
				services: 60% (2001) 
				Greece
				agriculture: 12.4% 
				industry: 22.4% 
				services: 65.1% (2005 est.) 
				Grenada
				agriculture: 24% 
				industry: 14% 
				services: 62% (1999 est.) 
				Guam
				agriculture: 26% 
				industry: 10% 
				services: 64% (2004 est.) 
				Guatemala
				agriculture: 50% 
				industry: 15% 
				services: 35% (1999 est.) 
				Guinea
				agriculture: 76% 
				industry and services: 24% (2006 est.) 
				Guinea-Bissau
				agriculture: 82% 
				industry and services: 18% (2000 est.) 
				Guyana
				agriculture: NA% 
				industry: NA% 
				services: NA% 
				Haiti
				agriculture: 66% 
				industry: 9% 
				services: 25% (1995) 
				Holy See (Vatican City)
				note: essentially services with a small amount of industry; nearly all dignitaries, priests, nuns, guards, and the approximately 3,000 lay workers live outside the Vatican 
				Honduras
				agriculture: 39.2% 
				industry: 20.9% 
				services: 39.8% (2005 est.) 
				Hong Kong
			manufacturing 6.1%, construction 1.9%, wholesale and retail trade, restaurants, and hotels 42.9%, financing, insurance, and real estate 21.4%, transport and communications 7.9%, community and social services 19.7% 
				note: above data exclude public sector (2008 est.) 
				Hungary
				agriculture: 5% 
				industry: 32.4% 
				services: 62.6% (2005) 
				Iceland
				agriculture: 3% 
				industry: 19% 
				services: 78% (2007) 
				India
				agriculture: 60% 
				industry: 12% 
				services: 28% (2003) 
				Indonesia
				agriculture: 42.1% 
				industry: 18.6% 
				services: 39.3% (2005 est.) 
				Iran
				agriculture: 25% 
				industry: 31% 
				services: 45% (June 2007) 
				Iraq
				agriculture: NA% 
				industry: NA% 
				services: NA% 
				Ireland
				agriculture: 6% 
				industry: 27% 
				services: 67% (2006 est.) 
				Isle of Man
			agriculture, forestry, and fishing 3%, manufacturing 11%, construction 10%, transport and communication 8%, wholesale and retail distribution 11%, professional and scientific services 18%, public administration 6%, banking and finance 18%, tourism 2%, entertainment and catering 3%, miscellaneous services 10% (2001) 
				Israel
				agriculture: 2% 
				industry: 16% 
				services: 82% (30 September 2008) 
				Italy
				agriculture: 4.2% 
				industry: 30.7% 
				services: 65.1% (2005) 
				Jamaica
				agriculture: 17% 
				industry: 19% 
				services: 64% (2006) 
				Japan
				agriculture: 4.4% 
				industry: 27.9% 
				services: 66.4% (2005) 
				Jordan
				agriculture: 2.7% 
				industry: 20% 
				services: 77.4% (2007 est.) 
				Kazakhstan
				agriculture: 31.5% 
				industry: 18.4% 
				services: 50% (2005 est.) 
				Kenya
				agriculture: 75% 
				industry and services: 25% (2003 est.) 
				Kiribati
				agriculture: 2.7% 
				industry: 32% 
				services: 65.3% (2000) 
				Korea, North
				agriculture: 37% 
				industry and services: 63% (2004 est.) 
				Korea, South
				agriculture: 7.2% 
				industry: 25.1% 
				services: 67.7% (2007 est.) 
				Kosovo
				agriculture: 16.5% 
				industry: NA 
				services: NA (2007 est.) 
				Kuwait
				agriculture: NA% 
				industry: NA% 
				services: NA% 
				Kyrgyzstan
				agriculture: 48% 
				industry: 12.5% 
				services: 39.5% (2005 est.) 
				Laos
				agriculture: 80% 
				industry and services: 20% (2005 est.) 
				Latvia
				agriculture: 12.1% 
				industry: 25.8% 
				services: 61.8% (2005 est.) 
				Lebanon
				agriculture: NA% 
				industry: NA% 
				services: NA% 
				Lesotho
				agriculture: 86% of resident population engaged in subsistence agriculture; roughly 35% of the active male wage earners work in South Africa 
				industry and services: 14% (2002 est.) 
				Liberia
				agriculture: 70% 
				industry: 8% 
				services: 22% (2000 est.) 
				Libya
				agriculture: 17% 
				industry: 23% 
				services: 59% (2004 est.) 
				Liechtenstein
				agriculture: 1.7% 
				industry: 43.5% 
				services: 55.4% (31 December 2006) 
				Lithuania
				agriculture: 14% 
				industry: 29.1% 
				services: 56.9% (2005) 
				Luxembourg
				agriculture: 2.2% 
				industry: 17.2% 
				services: 80.6% (2007 est.) 
				Macau
			manufacturing 7.4%, construction 12.6%, transport and communications 5%, wholesale and retail trade 12.5%, restaurants and hotels 12.7%, gambling 14%, public sector 6%, financial services 2.1%, other services and agriculture 27.7% (2008 est.) 
				Macedonia
				agriculture: 19.6% 
				industry: 30.4% 
				services: 50% (September 2007) 
				Malawi
				agriculture: 90% 
				industry and services: 10% (2003 est.) 
				Malaysia
				agriculture: 13% 
				industry: 36% 
				services: 51% (2005 est.) 
				Maldives
				agriculture: 22% 
				industry: 18% 
				services: 60% (1995) 
				Mali
				agriculture: 80% 
				industry and services: 20% (2005 est.) 
				Malta
				agriculture: 2.3% 
				industry: 29.6% 
				services: 68% (2005 est.) 
				Marshall Islands
				agriculture: 21.4% 
				industry: 20.9% 
				services: 57.7% (2000) 
				Mauritania
				agriculture: 50% 
				industry: 10% 
				services: 40% (2001 est.) 
				Mauritius
			agriculture and fishing 9%, construction and industry 30%, transportation and communication 7%, trade, restaurants, hotels 22%, finance 6%, other services 25% (2007) 
				Mexico
				agriculture: 15.1% 
				industry: 25.7% 
				services: 59% (2005) 
				Micronesia, Federated States of
				agriculture: 0.9% 
				industry: 34.4% 
				services: 64.7% 
				note: two-thirds are government employees (FY05 est.) 
				Moldova
				agriculture: 40.6% 
				industry: 16% 
				services: 43.3% (2005 est.) 
				Mongolia
				agriculture: 37.7% 
				industry: 12.9% 
				services: 49.4% (2007) 
				Montenegro
				agriculture: 2% 
				industry: 30% 
				services: 68% (2004 est.) 
				Morocco
				agriculture: 44.6% 
				industry: 19.8% 
				services: 35.5% (2006 est.) 
				Mozambique
				agriculture: 81% 
				industry: 6% 
				services: 13% (1997 est.) 
				Namibia
				agriculture: 47% 
				industry: 20% 
				services: 33% (1999 est.) 
				Nauru
				note: employed in mining phosphates, public administration, education, and transportation (1992) 
				Nepal
				agriculture: 76% 
				industry: 6% 
				services: 18% (2004 est.) 
				Netherlands
				agriculture: 2% 
				industry: 18% 
				services: 80% (2005 est.) 
				Netherlands Antilles
				agriculture: 1% 
				industry: 20% 
				services: 79% (2005 est.) 
				New Caledonia
				agriculture: 20% 
				industry: 20% 
				services: 60% (2002) 
				New Zealand
				agriculture: 7% 
				industry: 19% 
				services: 74% (2006 est.) 
				Nicaragua
				agriculture: 29% 
				industry: 19% 
				services: 52% (2006 est.) 
				Niger
				agriculture: 90% 
				industry: 6% 
				services: 4% (1995) 
				Nigeria
				agriculture: 70% 
				industry: 10% 
				services: 20% (1999 est.) 
				Niue
				note: most work on family plantations; paid work exists only in government service, small industry, and the Niue Development Board 
				Norfolk Island
				agriculture: 10% 
				industry and services: 90% 
				Northern Mariana Islands
				agriculture: NA% 
				industry: NA% 
				services: NA% 
				Norway
				agriculture: 2.9% 
				industry: 21.1% 
				services: 76% (2008) 
				Oman
				agriculture: NA% 
				industry: NA% 
				services: NA% 
				Pakistan
				agriculture: 43% 
				industry: 20.3% 
				services: 36.6% (2005 est.) 
				Palau
				agriculture: 20% 
				industry: NA% 
				services: NA% 
				Panama
				agriculture: 15% 
				industry: 18% 
				services: 67% (2006 est.) 
				Papua New Guinea
				agriculture: 85% 
				industry: NA% 
				services: NA% (2005 est.) 
				Paraguay
				agriculture: 31% 
				industry: 17% 
				services: 52% (2007) 
				Peru
				agriculture: 0.7% 
				industry: 23.8% 
				services: 75.5% (2005) 
				Philippines
				agriculture: 35% 
				industry: 15% 
				services: 50% (2008 est.) 
				Pitcairn Islands
				note: no business community in the usual sense; some public works; subsistence farming and fishing 
				Poland
				agriculture: 17.4% 
				industry: 29.2% 
				services: 53.4% (2005) 
				Portugal
				agriculture: 10% 
				industry: 30% 
				services: 60% (2007 est.) 
				Puerto Rico
				agriculture: 2.1% 
				industry: 19% 
				services: 79% (2005 est.) 
				Romania
				agriculture: 29.7% 
				industry: 23.2% 
				services: 47.1% (2006) 
				Russia
				agriculture: 10.2% 
				industry: 27.4% 
				services: 62.4% (2007 est.) 
				Rwanda
				agriculture: 90% 
				industry and services: 10% (2000) 
				Saint Helena
				agriculture: 6% 
				industry: 48% 
				services: 46% (1987 est.) 
				Saint Lucia
				agriculture: 21.7% 
				industry: 24.7% 
				services: 53.6% (2002 est.) 
				Saint Martin
			85% directly or indirectly employed in tourist industry 
				Saint Pierre and Miquelon
				agriculture: 18% 
				industry: 41% 
				services: 41% (1996 est.) 
				Saint Vincent and the Grenadines
				agriculture: 26% 
				industry: 17% 
				services: 57% (1980 est.) 
				Samoa
				agriculture: NA% 
				industry: NA% 
				services: NA% 
				San Marino
				agriculture: 0.1% 
				industry: 37.7% 
				services: 62.2% (2008 est.) 
				Sao Tome and Principe
				note: population mainly engaged in subsistence agriculture and fishing; shortages of skilled workers 
				Saudi Arabia
				agriculture: 6.7% 
				industry: 21.4% 
				services: 71.9% (2005 est.) 
				Senegal
				agriculture: 77.5% 
				industry and services: 22.5% (2007 est.) 
				Serbia
				agriculture: 30% 
				industry: 46% 
				services: 24% (2002) 
				Seychelles
				agriculture: 3% 
				industry: 23% 
				services: 74% (2006) 
				Sierra Leone
				agriculture: NA% 
				industry: NA% 
				services: NA% 
				Singapore
			agriculture 0%, industry 22.6%, services 77.4% (20062007) 
				Slovakia
			agriculture 4%, industry 39%, services 56.9% (30 September 2008) 
				Slovenia
				agriculture: 2.5% 
				industry: 36% 
				services: 61.5% (2007) 
				Solomon Islands
				agriculture: 75% 
				industry: 5% 
				services: 20% (2000 est.) 
				Somalia
				agriculture: 71% 
				industry and services: 29% (1975) 
				South Africa
				agriculture: 9% 
				industry: 26% 
				services: 65% (2007 est.) 
				Spain
				agriculture: 4% 
				industry: 26.4% 
				services: 69.5% (2008 est.) 
				Sri Lanka
				agriculture: 34.7% 
				industry: 26.1% 
				services: 39.2% (30 September 2008 est.) 
				Sudan
				agriculture: 80% 
				industry: 7% 
				services: 13% (1998 est.) 
				Suriname
				agriculture: 8% 
				industry: 14% 
				services: 78% (2004) 
				Swaziland
				agriculture: NA% 
				industry: NA% 
				services: NA% 
				Sweden
				agriculture: 1.1% 
				industry: 28.2% 
				services: 70.7% (2008 est.) 
				Switzerland
				agriculture: 3.9% 
				industry: 22.8% 
				services: 73.2% (2005) 
				Syria
				agriculture: 19.2% 
				industry: 14.5% 
				services: 66.3% (2006 est.) 
				Taiwan
				agriculture: 5.1% 
				industry: 36.8% 
				services: 58% (2008 est.) 
				Tajikistan
				agriculture: 67.2% 
				industry: 7.5% 
				services: 25.3% (2000 est.) 
				Tanzania
				agriculture: 80% 
				industry and services: 20% (2002 est.) 
				Thailand
				agriculture: 42.6% 
				industry: 20.2% 
				services: 37.1% (2005 est.) 
				Timor-Leste
				agriculture: 90% 
				industry: NA% 
				services: NA% (2006 est.) 
				Togo
				agriculture: 65% 
				industry: 5% 
				services: 30% (1998 est.) 
				Tonga
				agriculture: 31.8% 
				industry: 30.6% 
				services: 2,003% (2003 est.) 
				Trinidad and Tobago
			agriculture 3.8%, manufacturing, mining, and quarrying 12.8%, construction and utilities 20.4%, services 62.9% (2007 est.) 
				Tunisia
				agriculture: 55% 
				industry: 23% 
				services: 22% (1995 est.) 
				Turkey
				agriculture: 29.5% 
				industry: 24.7% 
				services: 45.8% (2005) 
				Turkmenistan
				agriculture: 48.2% 
				industry: 14% 
				services: 37.8% (2004 est.) 
				Turks and Caicos Islands
				note: about 33% in government and 20% in agriculture and fishing; significant numbers in tourism, financial, and other services 
				Tuvalu
				note: people make a living mainly through exploitation of the sea, reefs, and atolls and from wages sent home by those abroad (mostly workers in the phosphate industry and sailors) 
				Uganda
				agriculture: 82% 
				industry: 5% 
				services: 13% (1999 est.) 
				Ukraine
				agriculture: 19.4% 
				industry: 24.2% 
				services: 56.4% (2005) 
				United Arab Emirates
				agriculture: 7% 
				industry: 15% 
				services: 78% (2000 est.) 
				United Kingdom
				agriculture: 1.4% 
				industry: 18.2% 
				services: 80.4% (2006 est.) 
				United States
			farming, forestry, and fishing 0.6%, manufacturing, extraction, transportation, and crafts 22.6%, managerial, professional, and technical 35.5%, sales and office 24.8%, other services 16.5% 
				note: figures exclude the unemployed (2007) 
				Uruguay
				agriculture: 9% 
				industry: 15% 
				services: 76% (2007 est.) 
				Uzbekistan
				agriculture: 44% 
				industry: 20% 
				services: 36% (1995) 
				Vanuatu
				agriculture: 65% 
				industry: 5% 
				services: 30% (2000 est.) 
				Venezuela
				agriculture: 13% 
				industry: 23% 
				services: 64% (1997 est.) 
				Vietnam
				agriculture: 55.6% 
				industry: 18.9% 
				services: 25.5% (July 2005) 
				Virgin Islands
				agriculture: 1% 
				industry: 19% 
				services: 80% (2003 est.) 
				Wallis and Futuna
				agriculture: 80% 
				industry: 4% 
				services: 16% (2001 est.) 
				West Bank
				agriculture: 17% 
				industry: 15% 
				services: 68% (June 2008) 
				Western Sahara
				agriculture: 50% 
				industry and services: 50% (2005 est.) 
				World
				agriculture: 39.9% 
				industry: 20.6% 
				services: 39.5% (2007 est.) 
				Yemen
				note: most people are employed in agriculture and herding; services, construction, industry, and commerce account for less than one-fourth of the labor force 
				Zambia
				agriculture: 85% 
				industry: 6% 
				services: 9% (2004) 
				Zimbabwe
				agriculture: 66% 
				industry: 10% 
				services: 24% (1996)  		
				This page was last updated on 19 March 2009
&nbsp; 
CIA - The World Factbook -- Field Listing - Capital
&nbsp; 
				    &nbsp; 
                    Field Listing - Capital
         Home 
          &nbsp;Reference Maps 
          &nbsp;Appendixes 
			Country
			Capital 	
				Afghanistan
				name: Kabul 
				geographic coordinates: 34 31 N, 69 11 E 
				time difference: UTC+4.5 (9.5 hours ahead of Washington, DC during Standard Time) 
				Akrotiri
				name: Episkopi Cantonment (base administrative center for Akrotiri and Dhekelia) 
				geographic coordinates: 34 40 N, 32 51 E 
				time difference: UTC+2 (7 hours ahead of Washington, DC during Standard Time) 
				daylight saving time: +1hr, begins last Sunday in March; ends last Sunday in October 
				Albania
				name: Tirana (Tirane) 
				geographic coordinates: 41 19 N, 19 49 E 
				time difference: UTC+1 (6 hours ahead of Washington, DC during Standard Time) 
				daylight saving time: +1hr, begins last Sunday in March; ends last Sunday in October 
				Algeria
				name: Algiers 
				geographic coordinates: 36 45 N, 3 03 E 
				time difference: UTC+1 (6 hours ahead of Washington, DC during Standard Time) 
				American Samoa
				name: Pago Pago 
				geographic coordinates: 14 16 S, 170 42 W 
				time difference: UTC-11 (6 hours behind Washington, DC during Standard Time) 
				Andorra
				name: Andorra la Vella 
				geographic coordinates: 42 30 N, 1 31 E 
				time difference: UTC+1 (6 hours ahead of Washington, DC during Standard Time) 
				daylight saving time: +1hr, begins last Sunday in March; ends last Sunday in October 
				Angola
				name: Luanda 
				geographic coordinates: 8 50 S, 13 14 E 
				time difference: UTC+1 (6 hours ahead of Washington, DC during Standard Time) 
				Anguilla
				name: The Valley 
				geographic coordinates: 18 13 N, 63 03 W 
				time difference: UTC-4 (1 hour ahead of Washington, DC during Standard Time) 
				Antigua and Barbuda
				name: Saint John's 
				geographic coordinates: 17 07 N, 61 51 W 
				time difference: UTC-4 (1 hour ahead of Washington, DC during Standard Time) 
				Argentina
				name: Buenos Aires 
				geographic coordinates: 34 36 S, 58 40 W 
				time difference: UTC-3 (2 hours ahead of Washington, DC during Standard Time) 
				daylight saving time: +1hr, begins first Sunday in October; ends third Saturday in March; note - a new policy of daylight saving time was initiated by the government on 30 December 2007 
				Armenia
				name: Yerevan 
				geographic coordinates: 40 10 N, 44 30 E 
				time difference: UTC+4 (9 hours ahead of Washington, DC during Standard Time) 
				daylight saving time: +1hr, begins last Sunday in March; ends last Sunday in October 
				Aruba
				name: Oranjestad 
				geographic coordinates: 12 31 N, 70 02 W 
				time difference: UTC-4 (1 hour ahead of Washington, DC during Standard Time) 
				Australia
				name: Canberra 
				geographic coordinates: 35 17 S, 149 13 E 
				time difference: UTC+10 (15 hours ahead of Washington, DC during Standard Time) 
				daylight saving time: +1hr, begins last Sunday in October; ends last Sunday in March 
				note: Australia is divided into three time zones 
				Austria
				name: Vienna 
				geographic coordinates: 48 12 N, 16 22 E 
				time difference: UTC+1 (6 hours ahead of Washington, DC during Standard Time) 
				daylight saving time: +1hr, begins last Sunday in March; ends last Sunday in October 
				Azerbaijan
				name: Baku (Baki, Baky) 
				geographic coordinates: 40 23 N, 49 52 E 
				time difference: UTC+4 (9 hours ahead of Washington, DC during Standard Time) 
				daylight saving time: +1hr, begins last Sunday in March; ends last Sunday in October 
				Bahamas, The
				name: Nassau 
				geographic coordinates: 25 05 N, 77 21 W 
				time difference: UTC-5 (same time as Washington, DC during Standard Time) 
				daylight saving time: +1hr, begins second Sunday in March; ends first Sunday in November 
				Bahrain
				name: Manama 
				geographic coordinates: 26 14 N, 50 34 E 
				time difference: UTC+3 (8 hours ahead of Washington, DC during Standard Time) 
				Bangladesh
				name: Dhaka 
				geographic coordinates: 23 43 N, 90 24 E 
				time difference: UTC+6 (11 hours ahead of Washington, DC during Standard Time) 
				Barbados
				name: Bridgetown 
				geographic coordinates: 13 06 N, 59 37 W 
				time difference: UTC-4 (1 hour ahead of Washington, DC during Standard Time) 
				Belarus
				name: Minsk 
				geographic coordinates: 53 54 N, 27 34 E 
				time difference: UTC+2 (7 hours ahead of Washington, DC during Standard Time) 
				daylight saving time: +1hr, begins last Sunday in March; ends last Sunday in October 
				Belgium
				name: Brussels 
				geographic coordinates: 50 50 N, 4 20 E 
				time difference: UTC+1 (6 hours ahead of Washington, DC during Standard Time) 
				daylight saving time: +1hr, begins last Sunday in March; ends last Sunday in October 
				Belize
				name: Belmopan 
				geographic coordinates: 17 15 N, 88 46 W 
				time difference: UTC-6 (1 hour behind Washington, DC during Standard Time) 
				Benin
				name: Porto-Novo (official capital) 
				geographic coordinates: 6 29 N, 2 37 E 
				time difference: UTC+1 (6 hours ahead of Washington, DC during Standard Time) 
				note: Cotonou (seat of government) 
				Bermuda
				name: Hamilton 
				geographic coordinates: 32 17 N, 64 47 W 
				time difference: UTC-4 (1 hour ahead of Washington, DC during Standard Time) 
				daylight saving time: +1hr, begins second Sunday in March; ends first Sunday in November 
				Bhutan
				name: Thimphu 
				geographic coordinates: 27 29 N, 89 36 E 
				time difference: UTC+6 (11 hours ahead of Washington, DC during Standard Time) 
				Bolivia
				name: La Paz (administrative capital) 
				geographic coordinates: 16 30 S, 68 09 W 
				time difference: UTC-4 (1 hour ahead of Washington, DC during Standard Time) 
				note: Sucre (constitutional capital) 
				Bosnia and Herzegovina
				name: Sarajevo 
				geographic coordinates: 43 52 N, 18 25 E 
				time difference: UTC+1 (6 hours ahead of Washington, DC during Standard Time) 
				daylight saving time: +1hr, begins last Sunday in March; ends last Sunday in October 
				Botswana
				name: Gaborone 
				geographic coordinates: 24 45 S, 25 55 E 
				time difference: UTC+2 (7 hours ahead of Washington, DC during Standard Time) 
				Brazil
				name: Brasilia 
				geographic coordinates: 15 47 S, 47 55 W 
				time difference: UTC-3 (2 hours ahead of Washington, DC during Standard Time) 
				daylight saving time: +1hr, begins third Sunday in October; ends third Sunday in February 
				note: Brazil is divided into four time zones, including one for the Fernando de Noronha Islands 
				British Virgin Islands
				name: Road Town 
				geographic coordinates: 18 27 N, 64 37 W 
				time difference: UTC-4 (1 hour ahead of Washington, DC during Standard Time) 
				Brunei
				name: Bandar Seri Begawan 
				geographic coordinates: 4 53 N, 114 56 E 
				time difference: UTC+8 (13 hours ahead of Washington, DC during Standard Time) 
				Bulgaria
				name: Sofia 
				geographic coordinates: 42 41 N, 23 19 E 
				time difference: UTC+2 (7 hours ahead of Washington, DC during Standard Time) 
				daylight saving time: +1hr, begins last Sunday in March; ends last Sunday in October 
				Burkina Faso
				name: Ouagadougou 
				geographic coordinates: 12 22 N, 1 31 W 
				time difference: UTC 0 (5 hours ahead of Washington, DC during Standard Time) 
				Burma
				name: Rangoon (Yangon) 
				geographic coordinates: 16 48 N, 96 09 E 
				time difference: UTC+6.5 (11.5 hours ahead of Washington, DC during Standard Time) 
				note: Nay Pyi Taw is administrative capital 
				Burundi
				name: Bujumbura 
				geographic coordinates: 3 22 S, 29 21 E 
				time difference: UTC+2 (7 hours ahead of Washington, DC during Standard Time) 
				Cambodia
				name: Phnom Penh 
				geographic coordinates: 11 33 N, 104 55 E 
				time difference: UTC+7 (12 hours ahead of Washington, DC during Standard Time) 
				Cameroon
				name: Yaounde 
				geographic coordinates: 3 52 N, 11 31 E 
				time difference: UTC+1 (6 hours ahead of Washington, DC during Standard Time) 
				Canada
				name: Ottawa 
				geographic coordinates: 45 25 N, 75 42 W 
				time difference: UTC-5 (same time as Washington, DC during Standard Time) 
				daylight saving time: +1hr, begins second Sunday in March; ends first Sunday in November 
				note: Canada is divided into six time zones 
				Cape Verde
				name: Praia 
				geographic coordinates: 14 55 N, 23 31 W 
				time difference: UTC-1 (4 hours ahead of Washington, DC during Standard Time) 
				Cayman Islands
				name: George Town (on Grand Cayman) 
				geographic coordinates: 19 18 N, 81 23 W 
				time difference: UTC-5 (same time as Washington, DC during Standard Time) 
				Central African Republic
				name: Bangui 
				geographic coordinates: 4 22 N, 18 35 E 
				time difference: UTC+1 (6 hours ahead of Washington, DC during Standard Time) 
				Chad
				name: N'Djamena 
				geographic coordinates: 12 06 N, 15 02 E 
				time difference: UTC+1 (6 hours ahead of Washington, DC during Standard Time) 
				Chile
				name: Santiago 
				geographic coordinates: 33 27 S, 70 40 W 
				time difference: UTC-4 (1 hour ahead of Washington, DC during Standard Time) 
				daylight saving time: +1hr, begins second Sunday in October; ends second Sunday in March 
				China
				name: Beijing 
				geographic coordinates: 39 55 N, 116 23 E 
				time difference: UTC+8 (13 hours ahead of Washington, DC during Standard Time) 
				note: despite its size, all of China falls within one time zone 
				Christmas Island
				name: The Settlement 
				geographic coordinates: 10 25 S, 105 43 E 
				time difference: UTC+7 (12 hours ahead of Washington, DC during Standard Time) 
				Cocos (Keeling) Islands
				name: West Island 
				geographic coordinates: 12 10 S, 96 50 E 
				time difference: UTC+6.5 (11.5 hours ahead of Washington, DC during Standard Time) 
				Colombia
				name: Bogota 
				geographic coordinates: 4 36 N, 74 05 W 
				time difference: UTC-5 (same time as Washington, DC during Standard Time) 
				Comoros
				name: Moroni 
				geographic coordinates: 11 42 S, 43 14 E 
				time difference: UTC+3 (8 hours ahead of Washington, DC during Standard Time) 
				Congo, Democratic Republic of the
				name: Kinshasa 
				geographic coordinates: 4 19 S, 15 18 E 
				time difference: UTC+1 (six hours ahead of Washington, DC during Standard Time) 
				Congo, Republic of the
				name: Brazzaville 
				geographic coordinates: 4 15 S, 15 17 E 
				time difference: UTC+1 (six hours ahead of Washington, DC during Standard Time) 
				Cook Islands
				name: Avarua 
				geographic coordinates: 21 12 S, 159 46 W 
				time difference: UTC-10 (5 hours behind Washington, DC during Standard Time) 
				Costa Rica
				name: San Jose 
				geographic coordinates: 9 56 N, 84 05 W 
				time difference: UTC-6 (1 hour behind Washington, DC during Standard Time) 
				Cote d'Ivoire
				name: Yamoussoukro 
				geographic coordinates: 6 49 N, 5 17 W 
				time difference: UTC 0 (5 hours ahead of Washington, DC during Standard Time) 
				note: although Yamoussoukro has been the official capital since 1983, Abidjan remains the commercial and administrative center; the US, like other countries, maintains its Embassy in Abidjan 
				Croatia
				name: Zagreb 
				geographic coordinates: 45 48 N, 16 00 E 
				time difference: UTC+1 (6 hours ahead of Washington, DC during Standard Time) 
				daylight saving time: +1hr, begins last Sunday in March; ends last Sunday in October 
				Cuba
				name: Havana 
				geographic coordinates: 23 07 N, 82 21 W 
				time difference: UTC-5 (same time as Washington, DC during Standard Time) 
				daylight saving time: +1hr, begins last Sunday in March; ends last Sunday in October 
				Cyprus
				name: Nicosia (Lefkosia) 
				geographic coordinates: 35 10 N, 33 22 E 
				time difference: UTC+2 (7 hours ahead of Washington, DC during Standard Time) 
				daylight saving time: +1hr, begins last Sunday in March; ends last Sunday in October 
				Czech Republic
				name: Prague 
				geographic coordinates: 50 05 N, 14 28 E 
				time difference: UTC+1 (6 hours ahead of Washington, DC during Standard Time) 
				daylight saving time: +1hr, begins last Sunday in March; ends last Sunday in October 
				Denmark
				name: Copenhagen 
				geographic coordinates: 55 40 N, 12 35 E 
				time difference: UTC+1 (6 hours ahead of Washington, DC during Standard Time) 
				daylight saving time: +1hr, begins last Sunday in March; ends last Sunday in October 
				note: applies to continental Denmark only, not to the North Atlantic components 
				Dhekelia
				name: Episkopi Cantonment (base administrative center for Akrotiri and Dhekelia); located in Akrotiri 
				geographic coordinates: 34 40 N, 32 51 E 
				time difference: UTC+2 (7 hours ahead of Washington, DC during Standard Time) 
				daylight saving time: +1hr, begins last Sunday in March; ends last Sunday in October 
				Djibouti
				name: Djibouti 
				geographic coordinates: 11 35 N, 43 09 E 
				time difference: UTC+3 (8 hours ahead of Washington, DC during Standard Time) 
				Dominica
				name: Roseau 
				geographic coordinates: 15 18 N, 61 24 W 
				time difference: UTC-4 (1 hour ahead of Washington, DC during Standard Time) 
				Dominican Republic
				name: Santo Domingo 
				geographic coordinates: 18 28 N, 69 54 W 
				time difference: UTC-4 (1 hour ahead of Washington, DC during Standard Time) 
				Ecuador
				name: Quito 
				geographic coordinates: 0 13 S, 78 30 W 
				time difference: UTC-5 (same time as Washington, DC during Standard Time) 
				Egypt
				name: Cairo 
				geographic coordinates: 30 03 N, 31 15 E 
				time difference: UTC+2 (7 hours ahead of Washington, DC during Standard Time) 
				daylight saving time: +1hr, begins last Friday in April; ends last Thursday in September 
				El Salvador
				name: San Salvador 
				geographic coordinates: 13 42 N, 89 12 W 
				time difference: UTC-6 (1 hour behind Washington, DC during Standard Time) 
				Equatorial Guinea
				name: Malabo 
				geographic coordinates: 3 45 N, 8 47 E 
				time difference: UTC+1 (6 hours ahead of Washington, DC during Standard Time) 
				Eritrea
				name: Asmara (Asmera) 
				geographic coordinates: 15 20 N, 38 56 E 
				time difference: UTC+3 (8 hours ahead of Washington, DC during Standard Time) 
				Estonia
				name: Tallinn 
				geographic coordinates: 59 26 N, 24 43 E 
				time difference: UTC+2 (7 hours ahead of Washington, DC during Standard Time) 
				daylight saving time: +1hr, begins last Sunday in March; ends last Sunday in October 
				Ethiopia
				name: Addis Ababa 
				geographic coordinates: 9 02 N, 38 42 E 
				time difference: UTC+3 (8 hours ahead of Washington, DC during Standard Time) 
				European Union
				name: Brussels (Belgium), Strasbourg (France), Luxembourg 
				geographic coordinates: 50 50 N, 4 20 E 
				time difference: UTC+1 (6 hours ahead of Washington, DC during Standard Time) 
				daylight saving time: +1hr, begins last Sunday in March; ends last Sunday in October 
				note: the Council of the European Union meets in Brussels, Belgium, the European Parliament meets in Brussels and Strasbourg, France, and the Court of Justice of the European Communities meets in Luxembourg 
				Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas)
				name: Stanley 
				geographic coordinates: 51 42 S, 57 51 W 
				time difference: UTC-4 (1 hour ahead of Washington, DC during Standard Time) 
				daylight saving time: +1hr, begins first Sunday in September; ends third Sunday in April 
				Faroe Islands
				name: Torshavn 
				geographic coordinates: 62 01 N, 6 46 W 
				time difference: UTC 0 (5 hours ahead of Washington, DC during Standard Time) 
				daylight saving time: +1hr, begins last Sunday in March; ends last Sunday in October 
				Fiji
				name: Suva (on Viti Levu) 
				geographic coordinates: 18 08 S, 178 25 E 
				time difference: UTC+12 (17 hours ahead of Washington, DC during Standard Time) 
				Finland
				name: Helsinki 
				geographic coordinates: 60 10 N, 24 56 E 
				time difference: UTC+2 (7 hours ahead of Washington, DC during Standard Time) 
				daylight saving time: +1hr, begins last Sunday in March; ends last Sunday in October 
				France
				name: Paris 
				geographic coordinates: 48 52 N, 2 20 E 
				time difference: UTC+1 (6 hours ahead of Washington, DC during Standard Time) 
				daylight saving time: +1hr, begins last Sunday in March; ends last Sunday in October 
				note: applies to metropolitan France only, not to its overseas departments, collectivities, or territories 
				French Polynesia
				name: Papeete 
				geographic coordinates: 17 32 S, 149 34 W 
				time difference: UTC-10 (5 hours behind Washington, DC during Standard Time) 
				Gabon
				name: Libreville 
				geographic coordinates: 0 23 N, 9 27 E 
				time difference: UTC+1 (6 hours ahead of Washington, DC during Standard Time) 
				Gambia, The
				name: Banjul 
				geographic coordinates: 13 27 N, 16 34 W 
				time difference: UTC 0 (5 hours ahead of Washington, DC during Standard Time) 
				Georgia
				name: T'bilisi 
				geographic coordinates: 41 43 N, 44 47 E 
				time difference: UTC+4 (9 hours ahead of Washington, DC during Standard Time) 
				Germany
				name: Berlin 
				geographic coordinates: 52 31 N, 13 24 E 
				time difference: UTC+1 (6 hours ahead of Washington, DC during Standard Time) 
				daylight saving time: +1hr, begins last Sunday in March; ends last Sunday in October 
				Ghana
				name: Accra 
				geographic coordinates: 5 33 N, 0 13 W 
				time difference: UTC 0 (5 hours ahead of Washington, DC during Standard Time) 
				Gibraltar
				name: Gibraltar 
				geographic coordinates: 36 08 N, 5 21 W 
				time difference: UTC+1 (6 hours ahead of Washington, DC during Standard Time) 
				daylight saving time: +1hr, begins last Sunday in March; ends last Sunday in October 
				Greece
				name: Athens 
				geographic coordinates: 37 59 N, 23 44 E 
				time difference: UTC+2 (7 hours ahead of Washington, DC during Standard Time) 
				daylight saving time: +1hr, begins last Sunday in March; ends last Sunday in October 
				Greenland
				name: Nuuk (Godthab) 
				geographic coordinates: 64 11 N, 51 45 W 
				time difference: UTC-3 (2 hours ahead of Washington, DC during Standard Time) 
				daylight saving time: +1hr, begins last Sunday in March; ends last Sunday in October 
				note: Greenland is divided into four time zones 
				Grenada
				name: Saint George's 
				geographic coordinates: 12 03 N, 61 45 W 
				time difference: UTC-4 (1 hour ahead of Washington, DC during Standard Time) 
				Guam
				name: Hagatna (Agana) 
				geographic coordinates: 13 28 N, 144 44 E 
				time difference: UTC+10 (15 hours ahead of Washington, DC during Standard Time) 
				Guatemala
				name: Guatemala 
				geographic coordinates: 14 37 N, 90 31 W 
				time difference: UTC-6 (1 hour behind Washington, DC during Standard Time) 
				daylight saving time: +1hr, begins last Sunday in April; ends last Friday in September; note - there is no DST planned for 2007-2009 
				Guernsey
				name: Saint Peter Port 
				geographic coordinates: 49 27 N, 2 32 W 
				time difference: UTC 0 (5 hours ahead of Washington, DC during Standard Time) 
				daylight saving time: +1hr, begins last Sunday in March; ends last Sunday in October 
				Guinea
				name: Conakry 
				geographic coordinates: 9 33 N, 13 42 W 
				time difference: UTC 0 (5 hours ahead of Washington, DC during Standard Time) 
				Guinea-Bissau
				name: Bissau 
				geographic coordinates: 11 51 N, 15 35 W 
				time difference: UTC 0 (5 hours ahead of Washington, DC during Standard Time) 
				Guyana
				name: Georgetown 
				geographic coordinates: 6 48 N, 58 10 W 
				time difference: UTC-4 (1 hour ahead of Washington, DC during Standard Time) 
				Haiti
				name: Port-au-Prince 
				geographic coordinates: 18 32 N, 72 20 W 
				time difference: UTC-5 (same time as Washington, DC during Standard Time) 
				daylight saving time: +1hr, begins first Sunday in April; ends last Sunday in October 
				Holy See (Vatican City)
				name: Vatican City 
				geographic coordinates: 41 54 N, 12 27 E 
				time difference: UTC+1 (6 hours ahead of Washington, DC during Standard Time) 
				daylight saving time: +1hr, begins last Sunday in March; ends last Sunday in October 
				Honduras
				name: Tegucigalpa 
				geographic coordinates: 14 06 N, 87 13 W 
				time difference: UTC-6 (1 hour behind Washington, DC during Standard Time) 
				daylight saving time: +1hr, begins second Sunday in March; ends first Sunday in November 
				Hungary
				name: Budapest 
				geographic coordinates: 47 30 N, 19 05 E 
				time difference: UTC+1 (6 hours ahead of Washington, DC during Standard Time) 
				daylight saving time: +1hr, begins last Sunday in March; ends last Sunday in October 
				Iceland
				name: Reykjavik 
				geographic coordinates: 64 09 N, 21 57 W 
				time difference: UTC (5 hours ahead of Washington, DC during Standard Time) 
				India
				name: New Delhi 
				geographic coordinates: 28 36 N, 77 12 E 
				time difference: UTC+5.5 (10.5 hours ahead of Washington, DC during Standard Time) 
				Indonesia
				name: Jakarta 
				geographic coordinates: 6 10 S, 106 49 E 
				time difference: UTC+7 (12 hours ahead of Washington, DC during Standard Time) 
				note: Indonesia is divided into three time zones 
				Iran
				name: Tehran 
				geographic coordinates: 35 40 N, 51 25 E 
				time difference: UTC+3.5 (8.5 hours ahead of Washington, DC during Standard Time) 
				Iraq
				name: Baghdad 
				geographic coordinates: 33 20 N, 44 23 E 
				time difference: UTC+3 (8 hours ahead of Washington, DC during Standard Time) 
				Ireland
				name: Dublin 
				geographic coordinates: 53 19 N, 6 14 W 
				time difference: UTC 0 (5 hours ahead of Washington, DC during Standard Time) 
				daylight saving time: +1hr, begins last Sunday in March; ends last Sunday in October 
				Isle of Man
				name: Douglas 
				geographic coordinates: 54 09 N, 4 29 W 
				time difference: UTC 0 (five hours ahead of Washington, DC during Standard Time) 
				daylight saving time: +1hr, begins last Sunday in March; ends last Sunday in October 
				Israel
				name: Jerusalem 
				geographic coordinates: 31 46 N, 35 14 E 
				time difference: UTC+2 (7 hours ahead of Washington, DC during Standard Time) 
				daylight saving time: +1hr, begins last Friday in March; ends the Sunday between the holidays of Rosh Hashana and Yom Kippur 
				note: Israel proclaimed Jerusalem as its capital in 1950, but the US, like nearly all other countries, maintains its Embassy in Tel Aviv 
				Italy
				name: Rome 
				geographic coordinates: 41 54 N, 12 29 E 
				time difference: UTC+1 (6 hours ahead of Washington, DC during Standard Time) 
				daylight saving time: +1hr, begins last Sunday in March; ends last Sunday in October 
				Jamaica
				name: Kingston 
				geographic coordinates: 18 00 N, 76 48 W 
				time difference: UTC-5 (same time as Washington, DC during Standard Time) 
				Japan
				name: Tokyo 
				geographic coordinates: 35 41 N, 139 45 E 
				time difference: UTC+9 (14 hours ahead of Washington, DC during Standard Time) 
				Jersey
				name: Saint Helier 
				geographic coordinates: 49 11 N, 2 06 W 
				time difference: UTC 0 (5 hours ahead of Washington, DC during Standard Time) 
				daylight saving time: +1hr, begins last Sunday in March; ends last Sunday in October 
				Jordan
				name: Amman 
				geographic coordinates: 31 57 N, 35 56 E 
				time difference: UTC+2 (7 hours ahead of Washington, DC during Standard Time) 
				daylight saving time: +1hr, begins last Thursday in March; ends last Friday in September 
				Kazakhstan
				name: Astana 
				geographic coordinates: 51 10 N, 71 25 E 
				time difference: UTC+6 (11 hours ahead of Washington, DC during Standard Time) 
				note: Kazakhstan is divided into two time zones 
				Kenya
				name: Nairobi 
				geographic coordinates: 1 17 S, 36 49 E 
				time difference: UTC+3 (8 hours ahead of Washington, DC during Standard Time) 
				Kiribati
				name: Tarawa 
				geographic coordinates: 1 19 N, 172 58 E 
				time difference: UTC+12 (17 hours ahead of Washington, DC during Standard Time) 
				Korea, North
				name: Pyongyang 
				geographic coordinates: 39 01 N, 125 45 E 
				time difference: UTC+9 (14 hours ahead of Washington, DC during Standard Time) 
				Korea, South
				name: Seoul 
				geographic coordinates: 37 33 N, 126 59 E 
				time difference: UTC+9 (14 hours ahead of Washington, DC during Standard Time) 
				Kosovo
				name: Pristina (Prishtine, Prishtina) 
				geographic coordinates: 42 40 N, 21 10 E 
				time difference: UTC+1 (6 hours ahead of Washington, DC during Standard Time) 
				daylight saving time: +1hr, begins last Sunday in March; ends last Sunday in October 
				Kuwait
				name: Kuwait 
				geographic coordinates: 29 22 N, 47 58 E 
				time difference: UTC+3 (8 hours ahead of Washington, DC during Standard Time) 
				Kyrgyzstan
				name: Bishkek 
				geographic coordinates: 42 52 N, 74 36 E 
				time difference: UTC+6 (11 hours ahead of Washington, DC during Standard Time) 
				Laos
				name: Vientiane (Viangchan) 
				geographic coordinates: 17 58 N, 102 36 E 
				time difference: UTC+7 (12 hours ahead of Washington, DC during Standard Time) 
				Latvia
				name: Riga 
				geographic coordinates: 56 57 N, 24 06 E 
				time difference: UTC+2 (7 hours ahead of Washington, DC during Standard Time) 
				daylight saving time: +1hr, begins last Sunday in March; ends last Sunday in October 
				Lebanon
				name: Beirut 
				geographic coordinates: 33 52 N, 35 30 E 
				time difference: UTC+2 (7 hours ahead of Washington, DC during Standard Time) 
				daylight saving time: +1hr, begins last Sunday in March; ends last Sunday in October 
				Lesotho
				name: Maseru 
				geographic coordinates: 29 19 S, 27 29 E 
				time difference: UTC+2 (7 hours ahead of Washington, DC during Standard Time) 
				Liberia
				name: Monrovia 
				geographic coordinates: 6 18 N, 10 48 W 
				time difference: UTC 0 (5 hours ahead of Washington, DC during Standard Time) 
				Libya
				name: Tripoli (Tarabulus) 
				geographic coordinates: 32 53 N, 13 10 E 
				time difference: UTC+2 (7 hours ahead of Washington, DC during Standard Time) 
				Liechtenstein
				name: Vaduz 
				geographic coordinates: 47 08 N, 9 31 E 
				time difference: UTC+1 (6 hours ahead of Washington, DC during Standard Time) 
				daylight saving time: +1hr, begins last Sunday in March; ends last Sunday in October 
				Lithuania
				name: Vilnius 
				geographic coordinates: 54 41 N, 25 19 E 
				time difference: UTC+2 (7 hours ahead of Washington, DC during Standard Time) 
				daylight saving time: +1hr, begins last Sunday in March; ends last Sunday in October 
				Luxembourg
				name: Luxembourg 
				geographic coordinates: 49 36 N, 6 07 E 
				time difference: UTC+1 (6 hours ahead of Washington, DC during Standard Time) 
				daylight saving time: +1hr, begins last Sunday in March; ends last Sunday in October 
				Macedonia
				name: Skopje 
				geographic coordinates: 42 00 N, 21 26 E 
				time difference: UTC+1 (6 hours ahead of Washington, DC during Standard Time) 
				daylight saving time: +1hr, begins last Sunday in March; ends last Sunday in October 
				Madagascar
				name: Antananarivo 
				geographic coordinates: 18 55 S, 47 31 E 
				time difference: UTC+3 (8 hours ahead of Washington, DC during Standard Time) 
				Malawi
				name: Lilongwe 
				geographic coordinates: 13 59 S, 33 47 E 
				time difference: UTC+2 (7 hours ahead of Washington, DC during Standard Time) 
				Malaysia
				name: Kuala Lumpur 
				geographic coordinates: 3 10 N, 101 42 E 
				time difference: UTC+8 (13 hours ahead of Washington, DC during Standard Time) 
				note: Putrajaya is referred to as administrative center not capital; Parliament meets in Kuala Lumpur 
				Maldives
				name: Male 
				geographic coordinates: 4 10 N, 73 30 E 
				time difference: UTC+5 (10 hours ahead of Washington, DC during Standard Time) 
				Mali
				name: Bamako 
				geographic coordinates: 12 39 N, 8 00 W 
				time difference: UTC 0 (5 hours ahead of Washington, DC during Standard Time) 
				Malta
				name: Valletta 
				geographic coordinates: 35 53 N, 14 30 E 
				time difference: UTC+1 (6 hours ahead of Washington, DC during Standard Time) 
				daylight saving time: +1hr, begins last Sunday in March; ends last Sunday in October 
				Marshall Islands
				name: Majuro 
				geographic coordinates: 7 06 N, 171 23 E 
				time difference: UTC+12 (17 hours ahead of Washington, DC during Standard Time) 
				Mauritania
				name: Nouakchott 
				geographic coordinates: 18 07 N, 16 02 W 
				time difference: UTC 0 (5 hours ahead of Washington, DC during Standard Time) 
				Mauritius
				name: Port Louis 
				geographic coordinates: 20 09 S, 57 29 E 
				time difference: UTC+4 (9 hours ahead of Washington, DC during Standard Time) 
				Mayotte
				name: Mamoudzou 
				geographic coordinates: 12 46 S, 45 13 E 
				time difference: UTC+3 (8 hours ahead of Washington, DC during Standard Time) 
				Mexico
				name: Mexico (Distrito Federal) 
				geographic coordinates: 19 26 N, 99 08 W 
				time difference: UTC-6 (1 hour behind Washington, DC during Standard Time) 
				daylight saving time: +1hr, begins first Sunday in April; ends last Sunday in October 
				note: Mexico is divided into three time zones 
				Micronesia, Federated States of
				name: Palikir 
				geographic coordinates: 6 55 N, 158 09 E 
				time difference: UTC+11 (16 hours ahead of Washington, DC during Standard Time) 
				Moldova
				name: Chisinau (Kishinev) 
				note: pronounced kee-shee-now 
				geographic coordinates: 47 00 N, 28 51 E 
				time difference: UTC+2 (7 hours ahead of Washington, DC during Standard Time) 
				daylight saving time: +1hr, begins last Sunday in March; ends last Sunday in October 
				Monaco
				name: Monaco 
				geographic coordinates: 43 44 N, 7 25 E 
				time difference: UTC+1 (6 hours ahead of Washington, DC during Standard Time) 
				daylight saving time: +1hr, begins last Sunday in March; ends last Sunday in October 
				Mongolia
				name: Ulaanbaatar 
				geographic coordinates: 47 55 N, 106 55 E 
				time difference: UTC+8 (13 hours ahead of Washington, DC during Standard Time) 
				Montenegro
				name: Podgorica 
				geographic coordinates: 42 26 N, 19 16 E 
				time difference: UTC+1 (6 hours ahead of Washington, DC during Standard Time) 
				daylight saving time: +1 hr, begins last Sunday in March; ends last Sunday in October 
				Montserrat
				name: Plymouth 
				geographic coordinates: 16 42 N, 62 13 W 
				time difference: UTC-4 (1 hour ahead of Washington, DC during Standard Time) 
				note: Plymouth was abandoned in 1997 because of volcanic activity; interim government buildings have been built at Brades Estate in the Carr's Bay/Little Bay vicinity at the northwest end of Montserrat 
				Morocco
				name: Rabat 
				geographic coordinates: 34 01 N, 6 49 W 
				time difference: UTC 0 (5 hours ahead of Washington, DC during Standard Time) 
				Mozambique
				name: Maputo 
				geographic coordinates: 25 57 S, 32 35 E 
				time difference: UTC+2 (7 hours ahead of Washington, DC during Standard Time) 
				Namibia
				name: Windhoek 
				geographic coordinates: 22 34 S, 17 05 E 
				time difference: UTC+1 (6 hours ahead of Washington, DC during Standard Time) 
				daylight saving time: +1hr, begins first Sunday in September; ends first Sunday in April 
				Nauru
			no official capital; government offices in Yaren District 
				time difference: UTC+12 (17 hours ahead of Washington, DC during Standard Time) 
				Nepal
				name: Kathmandu 
				geographic coordinates: 27 43 N, 85 19 E 
				time difference: UTC+5.75 (10.75 hours ahead of Washington, DC during Standard Time) 
				Netherlands
				name: Amsterdam 
				geographic coordinates: 52 23 N, 4 54 E 
				time difference: UTC+1 (6 hours ahead of Washington, DC during Standard Time) 
				daylight saving time: +1hr, begins last Sunday in March; ends last Sunday in October 
				note: The Hague is the seat of government; time descriptions apply to the continental Netherlands only, not to the Caribbean components 
				Netherlands Antilles
				name: Willemstad (on Curacao) 
				geographic coordinates: 12 06 N, 68 56 W 
				time difference: UTC-4 (1 hour ahead of Washington, DC during Standard Time) 
				New Caledonia
				name: Noumea 
				geographic coordinates: 22 16 S, 166 27 E 
				time difference: UTC+11 (16 hours ahead of Washington, DC during Standard Time) 
				New Zealand
				name: Wellington 
				geographic coordinates: 41 28 S, 174 51 E 
				time difference: UTC+12 (17 hours ahead of Washington, DC during Standard Time) 
				daylight saving time: +1hr, begins first Sunday in October; ends third Sunday in March 
				note: New Zealand is divided into two time zones, including Chatham Island 
				Nicaragua
				name: Managua 
				geographic coordinates: 12 09 N, 86 17 W 
				time difference: UTC-6 (1 hour behind Washington, DC during Standard Time) 
				Niger
				name: Niamey 
				geographic coordinates: 13 31 N, 2 07 E 
				time difference: UTC+1 (6 hours ahead of Washington, DC during Standard Time) 
				Nigeria
				name: Abuja 
				geographic coordinates: 9 05 N, 7 32 E 
				time difference: UTC+1 (6 hours ahead of Washington, DC during Standard Time) 
				Niue
				name: Alofi 
				geographic coordinates: 19 01 S, 169 55 W 
				time difference: UTC-11 (6 hours behind Washington, DC during Standard Time) 
				Norfolk Island
				name: Kingston 
				geographic coordinates: 29 03 S, 167 58 E 
				time difference: UTC+11.5 (16.5 hours ahead of Washington, DC during Standard Time) 
				Northern Mariana Islands
				name: Saipan 
				geographic coordinates: 15 12 N, 145 45 E 
				time difference: UTC+10 (15 hours ahead of Washington, DC during Standard Time) 
				Norway
				name: Oslo 
				geographic coordinates: 59 55 N, 10 45 E 
				time difference: UTC+1 (6 hours ahead of Washington, DC during Standard Time) 
				daylight saving time: +1hr, begins last Sunday in March; ends last Sunday in October 
				Oman
				name: Muscat 
				geographic coordinates: 23 37 N, 58 35 E 
				time difference: UTC+4 (9 hours ahead of Washington, DC during Standard Time) 
				Pakistan
				name: Islamabad 
				geographic coordinates: 33 42 N, 73 10 E 
				time difference: UTC+5 (10 hours ahead of Washington, DC during Standard Time) 
				Palau
				name: Melekeok 
				geographic coordinates: 7 29 N, 134 38 E 
				time difference: UTC+9 (14 hours ahead of Washington, DC during Standard Time) 
				Panama
				name: Panama 
				geographic coordinates: 8 58 N, 79 32 W 
				time difference: UTC-5 (same time as Washington, DC during Standard Time) 
				Papua New Guinea
				name: Port Moresby 
				geographic coordinates: 9 30 S, 147 10 E 
				time difference: UTC+10 (15 hours ahead of Washington, DC during Standard Time) 
				Paraguay
				name: Asuncion 
				geographic coordinates: 25 16 S, 57 40 W 
				time difference: UTC-4 (1 hour ahead of Washington, DC during Standard Time) 
				Peru
				name: Lima 
				geographic coordinates: 12 03 S, 77 03 W 
				time difference: UTC-5 (same time as Washington, DC during Standard Time) 
				Philippines
				name: Manila 
				geographic coordinates: 14 35 N, 121 00 E 
				time difference: UTC+8 (13 hours ahead of Washington, DC during Standard Time) 
				Pitcairn Islands
				name: Adamstown 
				geographic coordinates: 25 04 S, 130 05 W 
				time difference: UTC-9 (4 hours behind Washington, DC during Standard Time) 
				Poland
				name: Warsaw 
				geographic coordinates: 52 15 N, 21 00 E 
				time difference: UTC+1 (6 hours ahead of Washington, DC during Standard Time) 
				daylight saving time: +1hr, begins last Sunday in March; ends last Sunday in October 
				Portugal
				name: Lisbon 
				geographic coordinates: 38 43 N, 9 08 W 
				time difference: UTC 0 (5 hours ahead of Washington, DC during Standard Time) 
				daylight saving time: +1hr, begins last Sunday in March; ends last Sunday in October 
				Puerto Rico
				name: San Juan 
				geographic coordinates: 18 28 N, 66 07 W 
				time difference: UTC-4 (1 hour ahead of Washington, DC during Standard Time) 
				Qatar
				name: Doha 
				geographic coordinates: 25 17 N, 51 32 E 
				time difference: UTC+3 (8 hours ahead of Washington, DC during Standard Time) 
				Romania
				name: Bucharest 
				geographic coordinates: 44 26 N, 26 06 E 
				time difference: UTC+2 (7 hours ahead of Washington, DC during Standard Time) 
				daylight saving time: +1hr, begins last Sunday in March; ends last Sunday in October 
				Russia
				name: Moscow 
				geographic coordinates: 55 45 N, 37 35 E 
				time difference: UTC+3 (8 hours ahead of Washington, DC during Standard Time) 
				daylight saving time: +1hr, begins last Sunday in March; ends last Sunday in October 
				note: Russia is divided into 11 time zones 
				Rwanda
				name: Kigali 
				geographic coordinates: 1 57 S, 30 04 E 
				time difference: UTC+2 (7 hours ahead of Washington, DC during Standard Time) 
				Saint Barthelemy
				name: Gustavia 
				geographic coordinates: 17 53 N, 62 51 W 
				time difference: UTC-4 (1 hour ahead of Washington, DC, during Standard Time) 
				Saint Helena
				name: Jamestown 
				geographic coordinates: 15 56 S, 5 44 W 
				time difference: UTC 0 (5 hours ahead of Washington, DC during Standard Time) 
				Saint Kitts and Nevis
				name: Basseterre 
				geographic coordinates: 17 18 N, 62 43 W 
				time difference: UTC-4 (1 hour ahead of Washington, DC during Standard Time) 
				Saint Lucia
				name: Castries 
				geographic coordinates: 14 01 N, 61 00 W 
				time difference: UTC-4 (1 hour ahead of Washington, DC during Standard Time) 
				Saint Martin
				name: Marigot 
				geographical coordinates: 18 04 N, 63 05 W 
				time difference: UTC-4 (1 hour behind Washington, DC, during Standard Time) 
				daylight savings: +1 hour 
				Saint Pierre and Miquelon
				name: Saint-Pierre 
				geographic coordinates: 46 46 N, 56 11 W 
				time difference: UTC-3 (2 hours ahead of Washington, DC during Standard Time) 
				daylight saving time: +1hr, begins second Sunday in March; ends first Sunday in November 
				Saint Vincent and the Grenadines
				name: Kingstown 
				geographic coordinates: 13 09 N, 61 14 W 
				time difference: UTC-4 (1 hour ahead of Washington, DC during Standard Time) 
				Samoa
				name: Apia 
				geographic coordinates: 13 50 S, 171 44 W 
				time difference: UTC-11 (6 hours behind Washington, DC during Standard Time) 
				San Marino
				name: San Marino 
				geographic coordinates: 43 56 N, 12 25 E 
				time difference: UTC+1 (6 hours ahead of Washington, DC during Standard Time) 
				daylight saving time: +1hr, begins last Sunday in March; ends last Sunday in October 
				Sao Tome and Principe
				name: Sao Tome 
				geographic coordinates: 0 12 N, 6 39 E 
				time difference: UTC 0 (5 hours ahead of Washington, DC during Standard Time) 
				Saudi Arabia
				name: Riyadh 
				geographic coordinates: 24 38 N, 46 43 E 
				time difference: UTC+3 (8 hours ahead of Washington, DC during Standard Time) 
				Senegal
				name: Dakar 
				geographic coordinates: 14 40 N, 17 26 W 
				time difference: UTC 0 (5 hours ahead of Washington, DC during Standard Time) 
				Serbia
				name: Belgrade (Beograd) 
				geographic coordinates: 44 50 N, 20 30 E 
				time difference: UTC+1 (6 hours ahead of Washington, DC during Standard Time) 
				daylight saving time: +1hr, begins last Sunday in March; ends last Sunday in October 
				Seychelles
				name: Victoria 
				geographic coordinates: 4 38 S, 55 27 E 
				time difference: UTC+4 (9 hours ahead of Washington, DC during Standard Time) 
				Sierra Leone
				name: Freetown 
				geographic coordinates: 8 30 N, 13 15 W 
				time difference: UTC 0 (5 hours ahead of Washington, DC during Standard Time) 
				Singapore
				name: Singapore 
				geographic coordinates: 1 17 N, 103 51 E 
				time difference: UTC+8 (13 hours ahead of Washington, DC during Standard Time) 
				Slovakia
				name: Bratislava 
				geographic coordinates: 48 09 N, 17 07 E 
				time difference: UTC+1 (6 hours ahead of Washington, DC during Standard Time) 
				daylight saving time: +1hr, begins last Sunday in March; ends last Sunday in October 
				Slovenia
				name: Ljubljana 
				geographic coordinates: 46 03 N, 14 31 E 
				time difference: UTC+1 (6 hours ahead of Washington, DC during Standard Time) 
				daylight saving time: +1hr, begins last Sunday in March; ends last Sunday in October 
				Solomon Islands
				name: Honiara 
				geographic coordinates: 9 26 S, 159 57 E 
				time difference: UTC+11 (16 hours ahead of Washington, DC during Standard Time) 
				Somalia
				name: Mogadishu 
				geographic coordinates: 2 04 N, 45 22 E 
				time difference: UTC+3 (8 hours ahead of Washington, DC during Standard Time) 
				South Africa
				name: Pretoria (administrative capital) 
				geographic coordinates: 25 42 S, 28 13 E 
				time difference: UTC+2 (7 hours ahead of Washington, DC during Standard Time) 
				note: Cape Town (legislative capital); Bloemfontein (judicial capital) 
				Spain
				name: Madrid 
				geographic coordinates: 40 24 N, 3 41 W 
				time difference: UTC+1 (6 hours ahead of Washington, DC during Standard Time) 
				daylight saving time: +1hr, begins last Sunday in March; ends last Sunday in October 
				note: Spain is divided into two time zones including the Canary Islands 
				Sri Lanka
				name: Colombo 
				geographic coordinates: 6 56 N, 79 51 E 
				time difference: UTC+5.5 (10.5 hours ahead of Washington, DC during Standard Time) 
				note: Sri Jayewardenepura Kotte (legislative capital) 
				Sudan
				name: Khartoum 
				geographic coordinates: 15 36 N, 32 32 E 
				time difference: UTC+3 (8 hours ahead of Washington, DC during Standard Time) 
				Suriname
				name: Paramaribo 
				geographic coordinates: 5 50 N, 55 10 W 
				time difference: UTC-3 (2 hours ahead of Washington, DC during Standard Time) 
				Svalbard
				name: Longyearbyen 
				geographic coordinates: 78 13 N, 15 33 E 
				time difference: UTC+1 (6 hours ahead of Washington, DC during Standard Time) 
				daylight saving time: +1hr, begins last Sunday in March; ends last Sunday in October 
				Swaziland
				name: Mbabane 
				geographic coordinates: 26 18 S, 31 06 E 
				time difference: UTC+2 (7 hours ahead of Washington, DC during Standard Time) 
				note: Lobamba (royal and legislative capital) 
				Sweden
				name: Stockholm 
				geographic coordinates: 59 20 N, 18 03 E 
				time difference: UTC+1 (6 hours ahead of Washington, DC during Standard Time) 
				daylight saving time: +1hr, begins last Sunday in March; ends last Sunday in October 
				Switzerland
				name: Bern 
				geographic coordinates: 46 57 N, 7 26 E 
				time difference: UTC+1 (6 hours ahead of Washington, DC during Standard Time) 
				daylight saving time: +1hr, begins last Sunday in March; ends last Sunday in October 
				Syria
				name: Damascus 
				geographic coordinates: 33 30 N, 36 18 E 
				time difference: UTC+2 (7 hours ahead of Washington, DC during Standard Time) 
				daylight saving time: +1hr, begins 1 April; ends 30 September 
				Taiwan
				name: Taipei 
				geographic coordinates: 25 03 N, 121 30 E 
				time difference: UTC+8 (13 hours ahead of Washington, DC during Standard Time) 
				Tajikistan
				name: Dushanbe 
				geographic coordinates: 38 35 N, 68 48 E 
				time difference: UTC+5 (10 hours ahead of Washington, DC during Standard Time) 
				Tanzania
				name: Dar es Salaam 
				geographic coordinates: 6 48 S, 39 17 E 
				time difference: UTC+3 (8 hours ahead of Washington, DC during Standard Time) 
				note: legislative offices have been transferred to Dodoma, which is planned as the new national capital; the National Assembly now meets there on a regular basis 
				Thailand
				name: Bangkok 
				geographic coordinates: 13 45 N, 100 31 E 
				time difference: UTC+7 (12 hours ahead of Washington, DC during Standard Time) 
				Timor-Leste
				name: Dili 
				geographic coordinates: 8 35 S, 125 36 E 
				time difference: UTC+9 (14 hours ahead of Washington, DC during Standard Time) 
				Togo
				name: Lome 
				geographic coordinates: 6 08 N, 1 13 E 
				time difference: UTC 0 (5 hours ahead of Washington, DC during Standard Time) 
				Tokelau
			none; each atoll has its own administrative center 
				time difference: UTC-11 (6 hours behind Washington, DC during Standard Time) 
				Tonga
				name: Nuku'alofa 
				geographic coordinates: 21 08 S, 175 12 W 
				time difference: UTC+13 (18 hours ahead of Washington, DC during Standard Time) 
				Trinidad and Tobago
				name: Port-of-Spain 
				geographic coordinates: 10 39 N, 61 31 W 
				time difference: UTC-4 (1 hour ahead of Washington, DC during Standard Time) 
				Tunisia
				name: Tunis 
				geographic coordinates: 36 48 N, 10 11 E 
				time difference: UTC+1 (6 hours ahead of Washington, DC during Standard Time) 
				daylight saving time: +1hr, begins last Sunday in March; ends last Sunday in October 
				Turkey
				name: Ankara 
				geographic coordinates: 39 56 N, 32 52 E 
				time difference: UTC+2 (7 hours ahead of Washington, DC during Standard Time) 
				daylight saving time: +1hr, begins last Sunday in March; ends last Sunday in October 
				Turkmenistan
				name: Ashgabat (Ashkhabad) 
				geographic coordinates: 37 57 N, 58 23 E 
				time difference: UTC+5 (10 hours ahead of Washington, DC during Standard Time) 
				Turks and Caicos Islands
				name: Grand Turk (Cockburn Town) 
				geographic coordinates: 21 28 N, 71 08 W 
				time difference: UTC-5 (same time as Washington, DC during Standard Time) 
				daylight saving time: +1hr, begins first Sunday in April; ends last Sunday in October 
				Tuvalu
				name: Funafuti 
				geographic coordinates: 8 30 S, 179 12 E 
				time difference: UTC+12 (17 hours ahead of Washington, DC during Standard Time) 
				note: administrative offices are located in Vaiaku Village on Fongafale Islet 
				Uganda
				name: Kampala 
				geographic coordinates: 0 19 N, 32 25 E 
				time difference: UTC+3 (8 hours ahead of Washington, DC during Standard Time) 
				Ukraine
				name: Kyiv (Kiev) 
				geographic coordinates: 50 26 N, 30 31 E 
				time difference: UTC+2 (7 hours ahead of Washington, DC during Standard Time) 
				daylight saving time: +1hr, begins last Sunday in March; ends last Sunday in October 
				United Arab Emirates
				name: Abu Dhabi 
				geographic coordinates: 24 28 N, 54 22 E 
				time difference: UTC+4 (9 hours ahead of Washington, DC during Standard Time) 
				United Kingdom
				name: London 
				geographic coordinates: 51 30 N, 0 10 W 
				time difference: UTC 0 (5 hours ahead of Washington, DC during Standard Time) 
				daylight saving time: +1hr, begins last Sunday in March; ends last Sunday in October 
				note: applies to the United Kingdom proper, not to its overseas dependencies or territories 
				United States
				name: Washington, DC 
				geographic coordinates: 38 53 N, 77 02 W 
				time difference: UTC-5 (during Standard Time) 
				daylight saving time: +1hr, begins second Sunday in March; ends first Sunday in November 
				note: the 50 United States cover six time zones 
				Uruguay
				name: Montevideo 
				geographic coordinates: 34 53 S, 56 11 W 
				time difference: UTC-3 (2 hours ahead of Washington, DC during Standard Time) 
				daylight saving time: +1hr, begins second Sunday in October; ends second Sunday in March 
				Uzbekistan
				name: Tashkent (Toshkent) 
				geographic coordinates: 41 20 N, 69 18 E 
				time difference: UTC+5 (10 hours ahead of Washington, DC during Standard Time) 
				Vanuatu
				name: Port-Vila (on Efate) 
				geographic coordinates: 17 44 S, 168 19 E 
				time difference: UTC+11 (16 hours ahead of Washington, DC during Standard Time) 
				Venezuela
				name: Caracas 
				geographic coordinates: 10 30 N, 66 56 W 
				time difference: UTC-4.5 (half an hour ahead of Washington, DC during Standard Time) 
				Vietnam
				name: Hanoi 
				geographic coordinates: 21 02 N, 105 51 E 
				time difference: UTC+7 (12 hours ahead of Washington, DC during Standard Time) 
				Virgin Islands
				name: Charlotte Amalie 
				geographic coordinates: 18 21 N, 64 56 W 
				time difference: UTC-4 (1 hour ahead of Washington, DC during Standard Time) 
				Wallis and Futuna
				name: Mata-Utu (on Ile Uvea) 
				geographic coordinates: 13 57 S, 171 56 W 
				time difference: UTC+12 (17 hours ahead of Washington, DC during Standard Time) 
				Western Sahara
			none 
				time difference: UTC 0 (5 hours ahead of Washington, DC during Standard Time) 
				Yemen
				name: Sanaa 
				geographic coordinates: 15 21 N, 44 12 E 
				time difference: UTC+3 (8 hours ahead of Washington, DC during Standard Time) 
				Zambia
				name: Lusaka 
				geographic coordinates: 15 25 S, 28 17 E 
				time difference: UTC+2 (7 hours ahead of Washington, DC during Standard Time) 
				Zimbabwe
				name: Harare 
				geographic coordinates: 17 50 S, 31 03 E 
				time difference: UTC+2 (7 hours ahead of Washington, DC during Standard Time)  		
				This page was last updated on 19 March 2009
&nbsp; 
CIA - The World Factbook -- Field Listing - Internet country code
&nbsp; 
				    &nbsp; 
                    Field Listing - Internet country code
         Home 
          &nbsp;Reference Maps 
          &nbsp;Appendixes 
			Country
			Internet country code 	
				Afghanistan
			.af 
				Albania
			.al 
				Algeria
			.dz 
				American Samoa
			.as 
				Andorra
			.ad 
				Angola
			.ao 
				Anguilla
			.ai 
				Antarctica
			.aq 
				Antigua and Barbuda
			.ag 
				Argentina
			.ar 
				Armenia
			.am 
				Aruba
			.aw 
				Australia
			.au 
				Austria
			.at 
				Azerbaijan
			.az 
				Bahamas, The
			.bs 
				Bahrain
			.bh 
				Bangladesh
			.bd 
				Barbados
			.bb 
				Belarus
			.by 
				Belgium
			.be 
				Belize
			.bz 
				Benin
			.bj 
				Bermuda
			.bm 
				Bhutan
			.bt 
				Bolivia
			.bo 
				Bosnia and Herzegovina
			.ba 
				Botswana
			.bw 
				Bouvet Island
			.bv 
				Brazil
			.br 
				British Indian Ocean Territory
			.io 
				British Virgin Islands
			.vg 
				Brunei
			.bn 
				Bulgaria
			.bg 
				Burkina Faso
			.bf 
				Burma
			.mm 
				Burundi
			.bi 
				Cambodia
			.kh 
				Cameroon
			.cm 
				Canada
			.ca 
				Cape Verde
			.cv 
				Cayman Islands
			.ky 
				Central African Republic
			.cf 
				Chad
			.td 
				Chile
			.cl 
				China
			.cn 
				Christmas Island
			.cx 
				Cocos (Keeling) Islands
			.cc 
				Colombia
			.co 
				Comoros
			.km 
				Congo, Democratic Republic of the
			.cd 
				Congo, Republic of the
			.cg 
				Cook Islands
			.ck 
				Costa Rica
			.cr 
				Cote d'Ivoire
			.ci 
				Croatia
			.hr 
				Cuba
			.cu 
				Cyprus
			.cy 
				Czech Republic
			.cz 
				Denmark
			.dk 
				Djibouti
			.dj 
				Dominica
			.dm 
				Dominican Republic
			.do 
				Ecuador
			.ec 
				Egypt
			.eg 
				El Salvador
			.sv 
				Equatorial Guinea
			.gq 
				Eritrea
			.er 
				Estonia
			.ee 
				Ethiopia
			.et 
				European Union
			.eu (effective 2005); note - see country entries of member states for individual country codes 
				Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas)
			.fk 
				Faroe Islands
			.fo 
				Fiji
			.fj 
				Finland
			.fi; note - Aland Islands assigned .ax 
				France
			metropolitan France - .fr; French Guiana - .gf; Guadeloupe - .gp; Martinique - .mq; Reunion - .re 
				French Polynesia
			.pf 
				French Southern and Antarctic Lands
			.tf 
				Gabon
			.ga 
				Gambia, The
			.gm 
				Gaza Strip
			.ps; note - same as West Bank 
				Georgia
			.ge 
				Germany
			.de 
				Ghana
			.gh 
				Gibraltar
			.gi 
				Greece
			.gr 
				Greenland
			.gl 
				Grenada
			.gd 
				Guam
			.gu 
				Guatemala
			.gt 
				Guernsey
			.gg 
				Guinea
			.gn 
				Guinea-Bissau
			.gw 
				Guyana
			.gy 
				Haiti
			.ht 
				Heard Island and McDonald Islands
			.hm 
				Holy See (Vatican City)
			.va 
				Honduras
			.hn 
				Hong Kong
			.hk 
				Hungary
			.hu 
				Iceland
			.is 
				India
			.in 
				Indonesia
			.id 
				Iran
			.ir 
				Iraq
			.iq 
				Ireland
			.ie 
				Isle of Man
			.im 
				Israel
			.il 
				Italy
			.it 
				Jamaica
			.jm 
				Japan
			.jp 
				Jersey
			.je 
				Jordan
			.jo 
				Kazakhstan
			.kz 
				Kenya
			.ke 
				Kiribati
			.ki 
				Korea, North
			.kp 
				Korea, South
			.kr 
				Kuwait
			.kw 
				Kyrgyzstan
			.kg 
				Laos
			.la 
				Latvia
			.lv 
				Lebanon
			.lb 
				Lesotho
			.ls 
				Liberia
			.lr 
				Libya
			.ly 
				Liechtenstein
			.li 
				Lithuania
			.lt 
				Luxembourg
			.lu 
				Macau
			.mo 
				Macedonia
			.mk 
				Madagascar
			.mg 
				Malawi
			.mw 
				Malaysia
			.my 
				Maldives
			.mv 
				Mali
			.ml 
				Malta
			.mt 
				Marshall Islands
			.mh 
				Mauritania
			.mr 
				Mauritius
			.mu 
				Mayotte
			.yt 
				Mexico
			.mx 
				Micronesia, Federated States of
			.fm 
				Moldova
			.md 
				Monaco
			.mc 
				Mongolia
			.mn 
				Montenegro
			.me 
				Montserrat
			.ms 
				Morocco
			.ma 
				Mozambique
			.mz 
				Namibia
			.na 
				Nauru
			.nr 
				Nepal
			.np 
				Netherlands
			.nl 
				Netherlands Antilles
			.an 
				New Caledonia
			.nc 
				New Zealand
			.nz 
				Nicaragua
			.ni 
				Niger
			.ne 
				Nigeria
			.ng 
				Niue
			.nu 
				Norfolk Island
			.nf 
				Northern Mariana Islands
			.mp 
				Norway
			.no 
				Oman
			.om 
				Pakistan
			.pk 
				Palau
			.pw 
				Panama
			.pa 
				Papua New Guinea
			.pg 
				Paraguay
			.py 
				Peru
			.pe 
				Philippines
			.ph 
				Pitcairn Islands
			.pn 
				Poland
			.pl 
				Portugal
			.pt 
				Puerto Rico
			.pr 
				Qatar
			.qa 
				Romania
			.ro 
				Russia
			.ru; note - Russia also has responsibility for a legacy domain ".su" that was allocated to the Soviet Union and is being phased out 
				Rwanda
			.rw 
				Saint Barthelemy
			.bl; note - .gp, the ccTLD for Guadeloupe, and .fr, the ccTLD for France, might also be encountered 
				Saint Helena
			.sh; note - Ascension Island assigned .ac 
				Saint Kitts and Nevis
			.kn 
				Saint Lucia
			.lc 
				Saint Martin
			.mf; note - .gp, the ccTLD for Guadeloupe, and .fr, the ccTLD for France, might also be encountered 
				Saint Pierre and Miquelon
			.pm 
				Saint Vincent and the Grenadines
			.vc 
				Samoa
			.ws 
				San Marino
			.sm 
				Sao Tome and Principe
			.st 
				Saudi Arabia
			.sa 
				Senegal
			.sn 
				Serbia
			.rs 
				Seychelles
			.sc 
				Sierra Leone
			.sl 
				Singapore
			.sg 
				Slovakia
			.sk 
				Slovenia
			.si 
				Solomon Islands
			.sb 
				Somalia
			.so 
				South Africa
			.za 
				South Georgia and the South Sandwich Islands
			.gs 
				Spain
			.es 
				Sri Lanka
			.lk 
				Sudan
			.sd 
				Suriname
			.sr 
				Svalbard
			.sj 
				Swaziland
			.sz 
				Sweden
			.se 
				Switzerland
			.ch 
				Syria
			.sy 
				Taiwan
			.tw 
				Tajikistan
			.tj 
				Tanzania
			.tz 
				Thailand
			.th 
				Timor-Leste
			.tl 
				Togo
			.tg 
				Tokelau
			.tk 
				Tonga
			.to 
				Trinidad and Tobago
			.tt 
				Tunisia
			.tn 
				Turkey
			.tr 
				Turkmenistan
			.tm 
				Turks and Caicos Islands
			.tc 
				Tuvalu
			.tv 
				Uganda
			.ug 
				Ukraine
			.ua 
				United Arab Emirates
			.ae 
				United Kingdom
			.uk 
				United States
			.us 
				Uruguay
			.uy 
				Uzbekistan
			.uz 
				Vanuatu
			.vu 
				Venezuela
			.ve 
				Vietnam
			.vn 
				Virgin Islands
			.vi 
				Wallis and Futuna
			.wf 
				West Bank
			.ps; note - same as Gaza Strip 
				Western Sahara
			.eh 
				Yemen
			.ye 
				Zambia
			.zm 
				Zimbabwe
			.zw  		
				This page was last updated on 19 March 2009
&nbsp; 
CIA - The World Factbook -- Field Listing - Stock of domestic credit
&nbsp; 
				    &nbsp; 
                    Field Listing - Stock of domestic credit
         Home 
          &nbsp;Reference Maps 
          &nbsp;Appendixes 
          		&nbsp;Rank Order List
			Country
			Stock of domestic credit 	
				Afghanistan
			$20.06 million (31 December 2007) 
				Albania
			$7.341 billion (31 December 2007) 
				Algeria
			NA 
				Angola
			$1.385 billion (31 December 2007) 
				Anguilla
			$447.7 million (31 December 2007) 
				Antigua and Barbuda
			$1.002 billion (31 December 2007) 
				Argentina
			$72.55 billion (31 December 2007) 
				Armenia
			$1.256 billion (31 December 2007) 
				Aruba
			$1.348 billion (31 December 2007) 
				Australia
			$1.312 trillion (31 December 2007) 
				Austria
			$548.5 billion (31 December 2008) 
				Azerbaijan
			$5.726 billion (31 December 2007) 
				Bahamas, The
			$7.395 billion (31 December 2007) 
				Bahrain
			$10.32 billion (31 December 2007) 
				Bangladesh
			$40.15 billion (31 December 2007) 
				Barbados
			$3.533 billion (31 December 2007) 
				Belarus
			$12.16 billion (31 December 2007) 
				Belgium
			$767.7 billion (31 December 2007) 
				Belize
			$877.6 million (31 December 2007) 
				Benin
			$520.6 million (31 December 2007) 
				Bhutan
			$169.9 million (31 December 2007) 
				Bolivia
			$4.759 billion (31 December 2007) 
				Bosnia and Herzegovina
			$8.895 billion (31 December 2007) 
				Botswana
			NA 
				Brazil
			$1.377 trillion (31 December 2007) 
				Brunei
			$2.38 billion (31 December 2007) 
				Bulgaria
			$33.3 billion (31 December 2008) 
				Burkina Faso
			$905.1 million (31 December 2007) 
				Burma
			$887.7 billion (31 December 2007) 
				Burundi
			$342 million (31 December 2007) 
				Cambodia
			$1.131 billion (31 December 2007) 
				Cameroon
			$1.3 billion (31 December 2007) 
				Canada
			$2.382 trillion (31 December 2007) 
				Cape Verde
			$1.049 billion (31 December 2007) 
				Central African Republic
			$320.2 million (31 December 2007) 
				Chad
			$82.81 million (31 December 2007) 
				Chile
			$127.1 billion (31 December 2007) 
				China
			$5.316 trillion (31 October 2008) 
				Colombia
			$57.2 billion (31 December 2008) 
				Comoros
			$45.09 million (31 December 2007) 
				Congo, Democratic Republic of the
			$559.5 million (31 December 2007) 
				Congo, Republic of the
			NA 
				Costa Rica
			$12.91 billion (31 December 2007) 
				Cote d'Ivoire
			$4.404 billion (31 December 2007) 
				Croatia
			$47.83 billion (31 December 2008) 
				Cuba
			NA 
				Cyprus
			$52.09 billion (31 December 2007) 
				Czech Republic
			$103.9 billion (31 December 2007) 
				Denmark
			$684.7 billion (31 December 2007) 
				Djibouti
			$224.7 million (31 December 2007) 
				Dominica
			$193.1 million (31 December 2007) 
				Dominican Republic
			$15.92 billion (31 December 2007) 
				Ecuador
			$8.926 billion (31 December 2007) 
				Egypt
			$113.9 billion (31 December 2007) 
				El Salvador
			$9.221 billion (31 December 2008) 
				Equatorial Guinea
			NA 
				Eritrea
			$1.711 billion (31 December 2007) 
				Estonia
			$21.35 billion (31 December 2007) 
				Ethiopia
			$6.694 billion (31 December 2006) 
				European Union
			$20.94 trillion 
				note: this figure refers to the Euro area only; it excludes credit data for members of the EU outside the Eurozone (31 December 2007) 
				Fiji
			$1.948 billion (31 December 2007) 
				Finland
			$240.7 billion (31 December 2007) 
				France
			$5.739 trillion (April 2008) 
				Gabon
			$359.8 million (31 December 2007) 
				Gambia, The
			$169.9 million (31 December 2007) 
				Gaza Strip
			$1.455 billion (31 December 2007) 
				Georgia
			$3.374 billion (31 December 2007) 
				Germany
			$5.081 trillion (31 December 2007) 
				Ghana
			$4.173 billion (31 December 2006) 
				Greece
			$392.4 billion (31 December 2007) 
				Grenada
			$575.8 million (31 December 2007) 
				Guatemala
			$13.96 billion (31 December 2007) 
				Guinea
			$422.1 million (31 December 2005) 
				Guinea-Bissau
			$46.44 million (31 December 2007) 
				Guyana
			$739.3 million (31 December 2007) 
				Haiti
			$1.537 billion (31 December 2007) 
				Honduras
			$6.298 billion (31 December 2007) 
				Hong Kong
			$272.4 billion (31 December 2008) 
				Hungary
			$109.5 billion (31 December 2007) 
				Iceland
			$49.67 billion (31 December 2006) 
				India
			$769.3 billion (31 December 2007) 
				Indonesia
			$170.2 billion (31 December 2007) 
				Iran
			$109.7 billion (31 December 2007) 
				Iraq
			NA 
				Ireland
			$768.9 billion (31 December 2007) 
				Israel
			$113.4 billion (31 December 2006) 
				Italy
			$3.084 trillion (31 December 2007) 
				Jamaica
			$6.609 billion (31 December 2007) 
				Japan
			$9.653 trillion (31 December 2007) 
				Jordan
			$25.05 billion (31 December 2008) 
				Kazakhstan
			$43.75 billion (31 December 2007) 
				Kenya
			$10.43 billion (31 December 2007) 
				Korea, South
			$937 billion (31 December 2008) 
				Kuwait
			$78.25 billion (31 December 2007) 
				Kyrgyzstan
			$558.3 million (31 December 2007) 
				Laos
			$285.8 million (31 December 2007) 
				Latvia
			$30.49 billion (31 December 2008) 
				Lebanon
			$45.51 billion (31 December 2007) 
				Lesotho
			NA 
				Liberia
			$1.157 billion (31 December 2007) 
				Libya
			NA 
				Lithuania
			$25.05 billion (31 December 2007) 
				Luxembourg
			$357.9 billion (31 December 2007) 
				Macau
			NA 
				Macedonia
			$2.924 billion (31 December 2007) 
				Madagascar
			$767.5 million (31 December 2007) 
				Malawi
			$406.2 million (31 December 2007) 
				Malaysia
			$220 billion (31 December 2007) 
				Maldives
			$1.08 billion (31 December 2007) 
				Mali
			$1.099 billion (31 December 2007) 
				Malta
			$10 billion (31 December 2008 est.) 
				Mauritania
			NA 
				Mauritius
			$8.582 billion (31 December 2007) 
				Mexico
			$349.1 billion (31 December 2007) 
				Micronesia, Federated States of
			NA 
				Moldova
			$1.896 billion (31 December 2007) 
				Mongolia
			$1.191 billion (31 December 2007) 
				Montenegro
			$3.083 billion (31 December 2007) 
				Montserrat
			$5.537 million (31 December 2007) 
				Morocco
			$71.9 billion (31 December 2007) 
				Mozambique
			$877.2 million (31 December 2007) 
				Namibia
			$4.446 billion (31 December 2007) 
				Nepal
			$5.636 billion (31 December 2007) 
				Netherlands
			$1.876 trillion (31 December 2007) 
				Netherlands Antilles
			$2.927 billion (31 December 2007) 
				New Zealand
			$200.1 billion (31 December 2007) 
				Nicaragua
			$4.133 billion (31 December 2007) 
				Niger
			$318.9 million (31 December 2007) 
				Nigeria
			$16.15 billion (31 December 2007) 
				Norway
			NA 
				Oman
			$13.88 billion (31 December 2007) 
				Pakistan
			$65.05 billion (31 December 2007) 
				Panama
			$17.4 billion (31 December 2007) 
				Papua New Guinea
			$1.486 billion (31 December 2007) 
				Paraguay
			$2.457 billion (31 December 2007) 
				Peru
			$17.88 billion (31 December 2007) 
				Philippines
			$65.66 billion (31 December 2007) 
				Poland
			$223.2 billion (31 December 2007) 
				Portugal
			$451.9 billion (31 December 2007) 
				Qatar
			$30.52 billion (31 December 2007) 
				Romania
			$58.76 billion (31 December 2007) 
				Russia
			$503.7 billion (1 October 2008) 
				Rwanda
			$209.2 million (31 December 2005) 
				Saint Kitts and Nevis
			$782.4 million (31 December 2007) 
				Saint Lucia
			$1.217 billion (31 December 2007) 
				Saint Vincent and the Grenadines
			$387.8 million (31 December 2007) 
				Samoa
			$215.1 million (31 December 2007) 
				San Marino
			$7.513 billion (31 December 2007) 
				Sao Tome and Principe
			$31.84 million (31 December 2007) 
				Saudi Arabia
			$66.94 billion (31 December 2007) 
				Senegal
			$2.97 billion (31 December 2007) 
				Serbia
			$13.44 billion (31 December 2007) 
				Seychelles
			$660.2 million (31 December 2007) 
				Sierra Leone
			$162.9 million (31 December 2007) 
				Singapore
			$171.3 billion (31 December 2008) 
				Slovakia
			$55.1 billion (31 December 2008) 
				Slovenia
			NA 
				Solomon Islands
			$126.9 million (31 December 2007) 
				South Africa
			$254.9 billion (31 December 2007) 
				Spain
			$3.724 trillion (30 November 2008) 
				Sri Lanka
			$15.92 billion (30 September 2008) 
				Sudan
			$8.659 billion (31 December 2007) 
				Suriname
			$651 million (31 December 2007) 
				Swaziland
			$204.1 million (31 December 2007) 
				Sweden
			$630.8 billion (31 December 2007) 
				Switzerland
			$864.4 billion (31 December 2008 est.) 
				Syria
			$50.92 billion (31 December 2006) 
				Taiwan
			NA 
				Tajikistan
			$417.4 million (31 December 2006) 
				Tanzania
			$2.25 billion (31 December 2007) 
				Thailand
			$241.8 billion (31 December 2007) 
				Timor-Leste
			NA 
				Togo
			$590.7 million (31 December 2007) 
				Tonga
			$163.1 million (31 December 2007) 
				Trinidad and Tobago
			$3.423 billion (31 December 2008) 
				Tunisia
			$25.23 billion (31 December 2007) 
				Turkey
			$358.1 billion (31 December 2007) 
				Uganda
			$907.3 million (31 December 2007) 
				Ukraine
			$87.13 billion (31 December 2007) 
				United Arab Emirates
			$155.4 billion (31 December 2007) 
				United Kingdom
			$5.278 trillion (31 December 2007) 
				United States
			$14.15 trillion (31 December 2007) 
				Uruguay
			$7.8 billion (31 December 2008) 
				Vanuatu
			$229.5 million (31 December 2007) 
				Venezuela
			$50.24 billion (31 December 2007) 
				Vietnam
			$68.63 billion (31 December 2007) 
				West Bank
			$1.455 billion (31 December 2007) 
				World
			$69.9 trillion (31 December 2007) 
				Yemen
			$2.224 billion (31 December 2007) 
				Zambia
			$1.968 billion (31 December 2007) 
				Zimbabwe
			$24.91 billion (31 December 2007)  		
				This page was last updated on 19 March 2009
&nbsp; 
